{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset129 \'b1\'bc\'b8\'b2;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1515;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1042\f0\fs20 [\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:06:36] *** DCMI AB added Julie Allinson ***\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:06:40] *** DCMI AB added Thomas Baker ***\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:08:10] *** DCMI AB added Pete Johnston ***\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:08:14] *** Conference call, duration 2:22:56 ***\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:09:03] DCMI AB: testing\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:09:17] Julie Allinson: hello, yes i can read you\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:09:34] Pete Johnston: Just came through. A bit of a lag on the text\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:13:14] Thomas Baker: are you using headphones?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:14:56] Pete Johnston: Yes, I am on headphones\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:15:11] Julie Allinson: No, I'm on a mac so just talking to the screen like a crazy  person\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:22:54] DCMI AB: test\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:23:35] DCMI AB: Topic: Accessibility\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:24:09] DCMI AB: Decision posted - liddy has posted replies on a number of DCMI lists\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:25:25] DCMI AB: An interesting and productive meeting ar DC2010 with Eric Miller and David Wood who both found the proposal interesting. They didn't disagree with the decision to reject but thought it was important and useful to have a DC property for accessibility\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:26:01] DCMI AB: Intereste din cretaing a test implementatoin of the diea showing what one could do with an accessibility property - leaving open the question of the property name, and a need for wordsmithing\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:26:31] Pete Johnston: I agree that implementation would be good. Was almost thinking we should require this for any term proposals (but that's a separate discussion)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:27:24] DCMI AB: Create a reference document with footnotes citing prior and related work. Tom would like to see the proposal go to the mailing lists and see what support is shown by the Community. Eric and David would work on a test implementation.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:27:51] DCMI AB: Question for UB is whether we would consider a new propsola for an 'accessibility' property.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:28:53] DCMI AB: Andrew: My concern - how does UB consider new term proposals.  Should we be adding new terms at all?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:30:36] DCMI AB: ...I am not saying we should rule this out.  Spoke with someone this morning who said our process is not clear enough.  Proposals result in rejection, so communities losing interest.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:30:51] DCMI AB: Makx: A few issues:\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:30:58] DCMI AB: -- discussion in Oversight Committee\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:31:14] DCMI AB: What do we want in terms of proposals - profile? profile with terms?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:31:29] DCMI AB: People have impression that UB is very careful.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:31:47] DCMI AB: Current approach - "No, unless".  "We need to be convinced".\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:31:55] DCMI AB: MARBI: "Yes, unless".\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:32:05] DCMI AB: "Only if we think it is really wrong".\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:32:24] DCMI AB: People also think that of APs because only one reviewed was rejected.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:32:46] DCMI AB: People see the final verdict.  Who would make the effort if they are not sure they have a chance?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:33:17] DCMI AB: Apart from question of what we want to review, maintenance effort we take on.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:33:32] DCMI AB: Recommends positive approach.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:34:07] DCMI AB: Pete: not just one AP considered ie. Collections AP approved\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:34:53] DCMI AB: Pete: new terms - is this about UB/DCMI endorsement or ....(?)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:35:50] DCMI AB: Pete: If I was doing it now I'd find my own uri space, publish term, and get on with it\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:36:17] DCMI AB: Pete: not a functional set of terms just a set of terms\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:36:52] DCMI AB: Q what is the set of terms and what is the purpose of managing them as a set\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:37:37] DCMI AB: Joe: thought when he joined it would be dealing with APs but still dealing with legacy issues. Need to prioritise and decide what our business is\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:38:18] Pete Johnston: My two "or" aspects above were: persistence and disclosure/discoverability (as well as endorsement)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:38:23] DCMI AB: Stephanie: Evaluate APs; problem with terms is that some are too granular (ie. they are not cross-domain)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:38:53] DCMI AB: Stephanie: new term proposals have to fit the bigger picture\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:40:04] DCMI AB: Akira: UB standard is a bit too high - need to be easier way for new terms to be established. UB should be focussing on APs\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:40:25] DCMI AB: Akira: Q. what is DCMI terms and what are new terms in APs\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:41:01] DCMI AB: Pete: It is easy to establish a new term - publish them in your own URI space.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:41:20] DCMI AB: Pete: question about what UB process is adding to that?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:42:24] DCMI AB: Pete: UB commitment to reviewing and approval leads to publication on DCMI website thus visibility is enhanced\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:42:40] DCMI AB: Pete: what requirements are being satisfied by having terms approved by the UB?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:42:47] DCMI AB: Pete: various aspects to the answer\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:43:38] DCMI AB: Max: new term proposals are not problems but opportunities\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:44:08] DCMI AB: Max: If term isn't violating any principles then we should have it\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:44:35] DCMI AB: Max: Pete seemed to be saying we don't want people to do this\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:44:58] DCMI AB: Max; UB iin danger of becoming useless to those in communities if we don't accept new terms\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:46:04] DCMI AB: Max: most of what is in the term set is useful for people. Acessibility is one new term that could be very useful and has a value to DCMI\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:47:01] DCMI AB: Pete: not starting from the psoition that UB should say no - trying to sort out what requirements the UB is meeting\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:48:05] DCMI AB: Pete: 1 For APs maybe bar is set too high re persistence of URIs. Time to change this position and lower the bar re URI persistence\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:48:13] DCMI AB: OOps that was actually TOM\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:48:55] DCMI AB: Tom: agree with somehting Makx said - is it useful as a criterion for evaluation\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:49:43] DCMI AB: Tom: eg Accessibility - if the Community is to find this useful then taking usefulness as a criterion would be a valuable way to proceed\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:50:28] DCMI AB: Tom: generally not in favour of UB considering new term proposals\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:51:04] DCMI AB: Tom: if we were to get a new proposal with an implementation with community support then we would consider it favourably\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:52:20] DCMI AB: Makx: volunteer to write a short note about the approach we should be taking. Our position should be "Yes, unless its stupid" rather than "no unless its useful". Will prepare in next 3-4 weeks and submit to UB for discussion. Action on Makx\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:53:31] DCMI AB: Tom: difference between accepting something for review, and accepting something. Resource concerns for UB\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:54:02] DCMI AB: Julie: need to be conscious of size of proposl and amount of work invovled. Not useful to spend hours and hours on something\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:54:27] DCMI AB: Raju: most of discussion is about legacy issues\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:54:34] Julie Allinson: I'd also add that we need to be clear about how the proposal should be formatted and what is required from proposers\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:55:39] DCMI AB: Raju: now we have a choice about whether new terms or APs. Need to be clear about whether a proposal should be an AP or a proposal for a new term\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:56:34] DCMI AB: Joe: If we are going to follow the lead proposed by Makx we need to be very clear about what we think the review criteria are - what is stupid...and what is not\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:57:29] DCMI AB: Julie: as part of review process for APs we review if new terms are added or not. Part of the process could be whether the proposers want the new term to be in DCMI namespace or not\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:57:59] DCMI AB: Tom: wind this up - action on Makx to make a proposal to UB.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 5:59:55] DCMI AB: JTT is scribe\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:00:08] DCMI AB: nice pic Julie\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:00:20] Julie Allinson: thanks!\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:01:28] DCMI AB: Admin Components (Andrew)\par
DCMI AB\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:06:59] DCMI AB: sending ppt\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:08:49] DCMI AB: Andrew: talk about A-Core\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:10:40] DCMI AB: a-core - metadata set about metadata records.  very simple.  not large aims.  only 8 properties and 4 categories.  see ppt for properties and categories.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:11:02] Pete Johnston: So this is describing several different things, right?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:11:21] DCMI AB: i think so\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:11:49] DCMI AB: Andrew: Hansen and Andressen added a "source" property\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:12:50] DCMI AB: Andrew: Andresen added a requirement that this metadata set should be exchanged, so added interoperability\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:13:21] DCMI AB: Andrew: they had a total of 23 categories - metadata for entire record, change, and exchange\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:16:50] DCMI AB: Andrew: (about metedata): identifier, source, scope, comment, location, language, rights, dateRange, handling,(change): action, name, email, contact, date, affiliation, (transmission/interchange): databsae, transmitter, fileName, technicalFormat, characterSet, bibliographic formation, resultFile\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:17:46] DCMI AB: Andrew: the feeling here, is there are unnecessary properties.  it's too complex.  we can drop the transmission/interchange.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:17:55] DCMI AB: Makx: who is the we that would do anyting about this?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:18:06] DCMI AB: Andrew: don't know\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:18:19] DCMI AB: Tom: what should the Usage Board say about A-Core?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:18:36] DCMI AB: Tom: this is because there appears to be people who are interested in this\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:19:09] DCMI AB: Makx: there is a proposal in front of the AB to look at Meta Metadata\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:19:33] DCMI AB: Makx: they could look at the A-Core work Andrew has done\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:19:46] DCMI AB: Andrew: need to finish\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:19:51] DCMI AB: was that a hand up?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:21:15] DCMI AB: Andrew: if we talk to people about using this we should drop transmission, and there's an ISO 19115 standard adopted by AGLS, and maybe we don't do anything but point them to ISO\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:22:37] DCMI AB: Tom: i have more fundamental questions.  i think this is an application profile, where the properties are not specified, and it's not clear what the domain model is.  And this would clarify a lot.  The URIs are under purl.org/identifier.  It looks like an early rough draft of an AP.  The purl doesn't work.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:23:01] DCMI AB: Makx: this is just what Michael Panzer is proposing.  MP wants to add a domain model and proper AP\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:23:06] Pete Johnston: I agree with Tom. Andy and I both made comments on ths on the AB list back in 2003 but they were ignored\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:24:30] DCMI AB: Tom: I propose an action for Andrew to write a brief summary of his work\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:25:23] DCMI AB: ACTION: Andrew to write brief summary of A-Core, and relate it to early work by Debbie and colleague, and make few comments on the specific properties made in the ppt.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:25:51] DCMI AB: Tom: then we can send an email message giving the context, saying that we had a brief discussion in the UB\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:26:22] DCMI AB: Makx: I would do it other way around.  when we discuss it tomorrow.  If we agree that we're setting up a Task Force, that we tell them they need to use Andrew's work.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:26:26] DCMI AB: AGREED\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:27:00] DCMI AB: ACTION: Andrew will send material to Panzer if the AB approves the new Task Force on Meta Metadata\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:27:08] DCMI AB: (Makx is leaving)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:27:13] DCMI AB: (not in protest)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:28:04] Julie Allinson: Errata and other changes to DCMI terms documentation (Akira)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:29:35] Julie Allinson: Pete's proposal to delete some sentences\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:29:43] Julie Allinson: Tom: proposes a decision on this\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:29:50] Julie Allinson: APPROVED\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:29:51] Pete Johnston: Hurrah! :)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:29:55] Julie Allinson: :)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:30:37] Julie Allinson: ACTION: Tom to delete the sentences as per the proposal\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:31:18] Julie Allinson: 2009-09-21 Range for dcterms:title - this is approved but a note is needed\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:32:36] DCMI AB: text: in october or november 2009, dcmi specified the range as literal, tho' there are some important uses with non-literal uses of title\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:32:46] DCMI AB: main reasons 1) most applicaoins use titles wiht literal values\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:32:56] DCMI AB: 2) literaal range makes impementation greatly simple.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:33:37] DCMI AB: those who want non-literal values can use http:/.... /1.1/dctitle\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:33:41] DCMI AB: (legacy)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:33:53] DCMI AB: (some editing will be needed)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:34:26] Julie Allinson: ACTION: Tom to add the range.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:34:57] Julie Allinson: 2009-04-21 - maintanance correction\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:35:49] Julie Allinson: ACTION: Tom to change reference 15836-21003 to 15836:2009\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:36:13] Julie Allinson: 2009-05-12 - documentation error\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:36:35] Julie Allinson: This action has been completed.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:37:09] Julie Allinson: 2009-05-19 - should we extend the dcmi-terms page index?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:38:25] Julie Allinson: PETE: Amend xslt\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:39:12] *** DCMI AB added Andrew Wilson ***\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:39:24] Julie Allinson: 2009-08-24 - ACTION: Tom to correct URI\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:40:40] Julie Allinson: 2008-10-15 - not action required.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:41:10] Julie Allinson: 2008-09-21 - ACTION: Tom to correct RDF schemas\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:41:28] Julie Allinson: 2009-07-23 - RDF schema proposed by Pete\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:42:04] Julie Allinson: APPROVED\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:42:42] Julie Allinson: ACTION: Tom to add see also link to http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/ (with final slash!)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:44:32] Julie Allinson: 2009-07-23 - Guidelines for Dublin Core Application Profiles\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:44:48] Julie Allinson: ACTION: Tom to make correction regarding ISO639-2 as proposed\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:45:50] Julie Allinson: ACTION: Tom to add resource class constraint\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:46:29] Julie Allinson: For etiquette, Karen should be alerted as the author.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:51:54] *** DCMI AB added Joseph T. Tennis ***\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:55:34] Andrew Wilson: test\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:56:02] Andrew Wilson: Topic: Usage Issues\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:56:15] Pete Johnston: Oh, is this me?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:56:23] Andrew Wilson: Yes\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 6:59:51] Julie Allinson: the call is on hold?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:00:04] Julie Allinson: back now\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:00:40] Andrew Wilson: Pete: usage issues that need to discussed\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:00:54] Andrew Wilson: 1 Relationship between foaf:maker and dcterms: creator\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:01:12] Andrew Wilson: 2. Issues around DC:identifier and dcterms:identifier\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:01:17] Andrew Wilson: 3. Usage document\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:01:30] Andrew Wilson: 4. Agent roles\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:01:56] Andrew Wilson: Agent roles won't be discussed here\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:03:51] Andrew Wilson: 1. Relationship between foaf:maker and dcterms:creator\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:03:59] Andrew Wilson: Slides sent previously\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:05:11] Andrew Wilson: Using DC:creator - historical ambiguity in using this term: inconsistent semantics in DC documents. SO could be used with both literal and non-literal values\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:06:06] Andrew Wilson: Lead to data processing difficulties. To remedy this 'messiness' FOAF community coined its own property foaf:maker\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:07:01] Andrew Wilson: Also asserted that foaf:maker could be used with dc:creator provided dc:creator only used literals\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:10:14] Andrew Wilson: Now the situation is that foaf:maker says exactly the same thing as dc:creator but this is not stated formally\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:10:37] Andrew Wilson: Proposal is that:FOAF says\par
foaf:maker rdfs:subPropertyOf dcterms:creator .\par
DCMI says\par
dcterms:creator rdfs:subPropertyOf foaf:maker\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:13:27] Andrew Wilson: Andrew: question why isn't it a problem that 2 things can be sub-properties of each other\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:14:51] Andrew Wilson: Pete: its a relationship statement in RDFS and the both triples can be inferred - from either statement both triples are ble to be inferred. RDFS says this is OK\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:21:23] Andrew Wilson: FOAF to drop guideline re use of dc:creator with literal values (suggested by Tom B)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:23:32] Andrew Wilson: At a technical level mutually sub-property assertions are not a probelm it enhances interoperability\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:23:51] Andrew Wilson: Pete are you there?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:23:54] Andrew Wilson: No sound\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:24:02] Andrew Wilson: Julie?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:24:16] Andrew Wilson: PETE!!\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:24:54] Andrew Wilson: ARE YOU THERE PETE?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:26:14] Pete Johnston: Have I dropped off?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:26:17] Andrew Wilson: Yes\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:26:32] Pete Johnston: Should I disconnect and you reinvite me?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:26:43] Andrew Wilson: Well I can see you in the chat channel but no sound\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:26:52] Andrew Wilson: OK< do that. Tom will call you\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:27:39] Andrew Wilson: Have you hung up Pete?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:29:43] Pete Johnston: I can get hat but no sound :-(((\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:29:47] Pete Johnston: chat\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:30:18] Andrew Wilson: can you disconnect from chat?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:31:14] *** Call ended ***\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:31:27] *** Conference call, duration 2:30:06 ***\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:32:17] Andrew Wilson: test\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:32:26] Julie Allinson: hello\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:32:39] Andrew Wilson: Pete?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:36:41] DCMI AB: pete?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:36:48] DCMI AB: we ring you but you're not picking up\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:39:41] Andrew Wilson: Not neccesary technically to publish changes together but maybe a good move politically\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:40:08] Andrew Wilson: Few comments when posted to DC Architecture\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:41:30] Andrew Wilson: Pete: Andy Powell said we haven't made any such assertions before so this would set a precedent - should we do it and would that mean we could be asked to make more such assertions\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:41:48] Andrew Wilson: Andrew: Q qould it matter if we made more assertions of this type?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:42:42] Andrew Wilson: Pete: might be useful to formally assert a number of other relationships\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:43:11] Andrew Wilson: Pete: We could either agree to make the assertion or go back to Dan B\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:43:24] Andrew Wilson: Akira: Why sin't it just a synonym?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:43:38] Andrew Wilson: Pete: It could be but you can't say that in RDFS\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:44:46] Andrew Wilson: Pete: the sub-property assertion is almost the same as saying they are synonyms. It might be possible to do it in OWL and this might be a stronger approach\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:46:03] Andrew Wilson: Tom: propose that UB take the initiative and formulate (if we agree) a proposal to the send to the list for comments from the OWL community\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:46:48] Andrew Wilson: Tom: would set an important precedent and is an important social question wil multiple vocabularies - no one is doing nything about this so would be a goo move for DCMI to be proactive\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:47:32] Andrew Wilson: Tom: articulate clearly that this is an experiment and we want to stimulate discussion about what's the best way to achieve this (mutual assertions)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:47:59] Andrew Wilson: Tom: get reaction from OWL and RDF communities about whether these type of declarations are the right way to go\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:49:00] Andrew Wilson: Joe: yes should be done but we need to think about the criteria and state principles about why we are doing this now\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:49:15] Andrew Wilson: Tom: Will work with Pete on this\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:51:01] Andrew Wilson: JOINT ACTION Pete & Tom: Pete will investigate OWL further to see if its possible to do it using OWL; Pete & Tom will work up a post to email to the DC Architecture and the Semantic Web community with cross postings pointing to the DC Architecture list email\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 7:59:08] Pete Johnston: I think the OWL construct to look at is owl:equivalentProperty http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-ref/#equivalentProperty-def\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:13:55] Andrew Wilson: Pete: OWL property equivalentProperty may be the appropriate one\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:14:10] Andrew Wilson: Tom: question for the semantic web community\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:14:32] Andrew Wilson: 2. Simple DC\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:15:51] Andrew Wilson: Pete: idea of simple DC mentioned in a number of documents\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:16:33] Andrew Wilson: Pete is suggesting that we can think of simple DC as a description set profile OR as a DC AP\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:17:06] Andrew Wilson: PEte has no preference for the approach as long as we are consistent\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:23:34] Andrew Wilson: Core question: which of the 2 DSP 'patterns' do we want to use?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:24:59] Andrew Wilson: Tom: defer issue of 'dumb down'\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:30:17] Andrew Wilson: Tom: thinks we should do both legacy and modern -  better than having either one alone\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:30:24] Andrew Wilson: Pete: agrees with this suggestion\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:30:55] Andrew Wilson: Stephanie: First question - should it be a DSP or a DCAP?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:31:04] Andrew Wilson: Pete: Thinks DSP is the best way to go\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:32:11] Andrew Wilson: Tom: functional requirements deliberately underspecified at the beginning - allowed DC to get going\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:32:38] Andrew Wilson: Tom: shouldn't try to retrofit functional requirements which would be necessary for an AP\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:33:36] Andrew Wilson: Julie agrees\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:33:54] Andrew Wilson: Tom: Keep on UB agenda but not highest priority\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:34:48] Andrew Wilson: Stephanie: Problem with not having a high priority - should have a high priority because its needed for implementors now\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:36:17] Andrew Wilson: Tom: make a medium term priority - agreement that we should have both the proposed DSP\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:37:19] Andrew Wilson: ACTION: Pete & Tom to write up explanation using two simple DSPs\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:38:05] Andrew Wilson: 3. Use of dcterms: identifier\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:39:35] Andrew Wilson:  URI as a literal value\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:43:37] Andrew Wilson: Tom: need to bookmark this when we look at FAQ and glossary\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:44:36] Andrew Wilson: ACTION Tom & Pete to capture essence of the issues in a short paragraph to take to DC Architecture\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:44:58] Andrew Wilson: Joe: identity and location is an old issue (ie. raised some some time ago)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:45:34] Andrew Wilson: Joe: not a big deal but seems to have connections with discussions about what a subject is\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:45:47] Andrew Wilson: Joe: need to be explicit about our philosophy\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:50:48] Thomas Baker: glossary Jo\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:52:03] Thomas Baker: problem\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:52:18] Thomas Baker: pre-dcam - post-dcam\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:52:28] Thomas Baker: presriptive vs. desriptive\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:52:43] Thomas Baker: functions of the glossary : two different functions\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:52:56] Thomas Baker: the past and what is now\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:53:07] Thomas Baker: and it shall be a small document\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:53:35] Thomas Baker: suggestion: two glossarys\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:54:15] Thomas Baker: one post-dcam glossary and one for the legacy stuff with is pre- and post with cross-references\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:54:43] Thomas Baker: interpares - done this with digital archives\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:55:29] Thomas Baker: an terms of dcam have to move in\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:57:05] Pete Johnston: I can't really hear this discussion\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:57:14] Julie Allinson: Me either\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:57:22] Julie Allinson: Yes, but not Joe\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:57:32] Julie Allinson: yes\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:58:03] Thomas Baker: general point of Jos proposal - a prescriptive and a descriptiive glossary\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 8:59:35] Thomas Baker: one will be a dictionary - that will be pre- and post-dcam\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:03:06] Thomas Baker: 90 % of the old glossary will not go in the new one\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:03:22] Thomas Baker: action: tom carries the glossary forward\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:03:45] Thomas Baker: topic : faq\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:04:38] DCMI AB: send it through\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:04:39] DCMI AB: :)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:05:02] Julie Allinson: trying ... i think you need to accept it?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:05:17] DCMI AB: hahah... don't see it\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:05:35] DCMI AB: hmmm\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:05:40] DCMI AB: did you drop it in the text box?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:05:56] Julie Allinson: no, I sent a file. Let me try again.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:05:58] DCMI AB: k\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:06:00] DCMI AB: thanks\par
Julie Allinson\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:09:32] Thomas Baker: see document Julie send some hours ago\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:10:12] Thomas Baker: tom: we should consider the new web pages\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:11:45] Thomas Baker: role of the faq is to show the dc-specific jargon like dumb-down principle, qualifiers etc.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:12:34] Thomas Baker: for example what is the difference between dcmes and dcmi terms\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:14:56] Thomas Baker: no 1 is not used any longer, the same with 2 to 5\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:16:29] Thomas Baker: no 6 for the glossary and used for the introduction of using dc\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:18:16] Thomas Baker: no 8 answer has to be: why use dc in various meanings = multiple questions\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:20:21] Thomas Baker: no 7 dc simple and qualified should be part of the glossary (old)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:22:41] Thomas Baker: seperate the questions by what, how etc.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:22:48] Pete Johnston: I'm just comparing with http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/SW-FAQ which doesn't really have many "whwt is X?" questions\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:25:22] Thomas Baker: Usage notes instead of faq?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:26:21] Thomas Baker: no 8-10 is not used any more\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:28:01] Thomas Baker: what questions really belong in the faq?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:29:59] Thomas Baker: no. 15 will stay\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:30:56] Julie Allinson: I can't hear any of what andrew is saying.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:33:31] Thomas Baker: andrew: no, it will require a long answer\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:34:56] Pete Johnston: I don't think Makx will let us use FUQ as an acronym :)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:35:15] Thomas Baker: no. 24 maybe\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:36:17] Thomas Baker: possible candidates are 29 and 30\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:37:01] Thomas Baker: another questions should be difference between literal and non-literal and VES and SES\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:38:20] Thomas Baker: what needs to answer: what is the difference between dc:creator and dcterms:creator?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:39:44] Thomas Baker: topic introductory materials: Tom asks for comments to the web pages he has done\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:41:17] Andrew Wilson: Stephanie: Using DC 1-3 chapters - can't work on elemnts without knowng what's going to be on the Introducton\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:42:59] Andrew Wilson: Topic: elements and qualifiers (Stephanie)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:43:10] Andrew Wilson: Stephanie: needs a new introduction\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:43:45] Andrew Wilson: A sort introduction saying all the necessary things about What DC is and the principles and goals of DCMI\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:44:00] Andrew Wilson: Intro first then Jo will do Glossary\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:44:50] Andrew Wilson: Localisation groups need something simple for new implementers\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:45:30] Andrew Wilson: Historical view of how we got the elements and terms - done in new glossary/dictionary structure\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:46:00] Andrew Wilson: Chapter 2 - technical issues, XML, RDF etc. Should be really short\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:46:23] Pete Johnston: I wonder whether the syntax stuff should come at the end. Not sure\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:46:41] Andrew Wilson: Controlled vocabularies, values, value constraints - is this appropriate for this text?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:47:46] Andrew Wilson: Pete: notion of elements and qualifiers - DC now seen as a set of properties so not useful to talk about elements\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:47:54] Pete Johnston: Great.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:48:09] Andrew Wilson: DCMI terms after text about values etc.\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:48:34] Andrew Wilson: DCMI terms - examples of classes, properties\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:49:24] Andrew Wilson: Tom: Q: how helpful generally are the notes/guideliens for the creation of content (included in many of the term descriptions)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:50:37] Pete Johnston: Yes - I agree about too text-focussed\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:50:40] Andrew Wilson: Stephanie: yes, they are useful but all examples are very bibliographically focussed\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:51:02] Andrew Wilson: ie. they deal with library materials almost exclusively\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:51:56] Andrew Wilson: Users need to be told that the properties apply to anything in the world (resources)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:53:15] Andrew Wilson: Tom: can we take all the usage notes and put them in a wiki and let people have a go at them for a while. Would that work?\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:54:18] Pete Johnston: FWIW, I think the FOAF document has a nice style of guideline. But it is a bit variable. Some properties have detailed guidance, others almost none\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:54:50] Pete Johnston: See e.g. http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/#term_currentProject\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:55:30] Andrew Wilson: Tom: Examples to cover some of the more interesting cases rather than everything in the guide\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:57:35] Andrew Wilson: ACTION: Stephanie to write an Introduction for a new Gudeline - use Diane's contents list as the basis\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:58:30] Andrew Wilson: ACTION: Stephanie to find examples for the interesting (ie. difficult) properties to clearly show their use\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 9:59:19] Pete Johnston: Very diplomatic! :)\par
[\'bf\'c0\'c8\'c4 10:01:33] *** Call ended ***\par
}
 