---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2006/2006-04-06.ub-telecon-log.html"
---

<pre>
[4/6/2006 3:59 PM] [INFO] Now logging to &lt;<a href="file:///file://localhost/e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log&amp;gt">file:///file://localhost/e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log&amp;gt</a>;.
[4/6/2006 3:59 PM] [INFO] Channel view for ``#UB'' opened.
[4/6/2006 3:59 PM] --&gt;| YOU (TBaker) have joined #UB
[4/6/2006 4:00 PM] --&gt;| sasutton (chatzilla@rox-53C9B094.nat.washington.edu) has joined #UB
[4/6/2006 4:00 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/">http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/</a>
[4/6/2006 4:01 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; AndyP, are you there?
[4/6/2006 4:02 PM] &lt;AndyP&gt; yes, just joining
[4/6/2006 4:07 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Agenda item #3 DC 2.0
[4/6/2006 4:08 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Action: AndyP email url to Architecture WG
[4/6/2006 4:08 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; ACTION Andy: email URL of DCMESINDCTERMS to dc-architecture
[4/6/2006 4:11 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; DC 2.0 issue - "new, improved..."
[4/6/2006 4:12 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: Plea that documentation would need to reflect this. Upgrade of documentation would be big part of that.
[4/6/2006 4:12 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Stuart: Coordinated re-launch that can grab people's attention.
[4/6/2006 4:23 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: OLAC - group that has done group consensus and want to have it registered, ready to submit.
[4/6/2006 4:35 PM] &lt;--| sasutton has left #UB
[4/6/2006 4:35 PM] |&lt;-- jtennis has left irc.ukoln.ac.uk (Quit: jtennis has no reason)
[4/6/2006 4:35 PM] |&lt;-- AndyP has left irc.ukoln.ac.uk (Quit: Chatzilla 0.9.70 [Firefox 1.5.0.1/2006011112])
</pre>
