[3/30/2006 4:01 PM] [INFO] Now logging to <file:///e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log>.
[3/30/2006 4:01 PM] [INFO] Channel view for ``#UB'' opened.
[3/30/2006 4:01 PM] -->| YOU (TBaker) have joined #UB
[3/30/2006 4:01 PM] <TBaker> Hi Diane, Stuart!
[3/30/2006 4:02 PM] <sasutton> Hi, off getting coffee
[3/30/2006 4:02 PM] <TBaker> Attending: Andrew, Akira, Diane, Joe
[3/30/2006 4:02 PM] <TBaker> Attending: Tom, Stuart
[3/30/2006 4:03 PM] -->| jtennis (jircii@rox-697C449C.slais.ubc.ca) has joined #UB
[3/30/2006 4:04 PM] <TBaker> http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/
[3/30/2006 4:09 PM] <jtennis> started meeing by going over agenda
[3/30/2006 4:09 PM] <jtennis> for Seattle
[3/30/2006 4:10 PM] <jtennis> Andrew has action items for DCMES Changes
[3/30/2006 4:11 PM] <jtennis> Agenda Item #2 - Changes to DCTERMS
[3/30/2006 4:11 PM] <jtennis> http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/term-changes/
[3/30/2006 4:12 PM] <TBaker> http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.definitions/term-changes/
[3/30/2006 4:13 PM] <jtennis> aim to get decisions on Changes to DC TERMS
[3/30/2006 4:14 PM] <jtennis> Agenda Item #3 - Replicating DCMES Terms in DCTERMS namespace
[3/30/2006 4:14 PM] <jtennis> need a doc to justify this
[3/30/2006 4:14 PM] <jtennis> flagged for follow up by Andy
[3/30/2006 4:15 PM] <jtennis> Agenda Item #4 - DCMI property domains and ranges
[3/30/2006 4:16 PM] <TBaker> http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/
[3/30/2006 4:17 PM] <jtennis> need Agenda item #4 before #5
[3/30/2006 4:22 PM] <TBaker> http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/
[3/30/2006 4:23 PM] <TBaker> http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/2006-03-24.domain-range-rationale.txt
[3/30/2006 4:23 PM] <TBaker> http://dublincore.org/architecturewiki/DCRDFTaskforce/DCRDFExecutiveSummary3
[3/30/2006 4:23 PM] <TBaker> http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2005/12/type-vocabulary-changes/
[3/30/2006 4:25 PM] <TBaker> Diane: concern with legacy implementations.
[3/30/2006 4:25 PM] <TBaker> This introduces alot more complexity in terms of what people think of as "appropriate data".
[3/30/2006 4:26 PM] <TBaker> ACTION Tom: ask Andy whether to put Swoogle data into meeting packet.
[3/30/2006 4:26 PM] <TBaker> Diane: not just assume that because it is a good thing technically, we should do it.
[3/30/2006 4:27 PM] <jtennis> Agenda Item #6 - NSDL Registry
[3/30/2006 4:27 PM] <jtennis> Agenday Item #7 - Review of Applicaiton Profiles
[3/30/2006 4:28 PM] <jtennis> Agenda Item #8 - pipeline
[3/30/2006 4:28 PM] <jtennis> Agenda Item #9 - wikipedia article
[3/30/2006 4:29 PM] <TBaker> ACTION Diane : send tom a column on RDA
[3/30/2006 4:35 PM] <jtennis> ACTION Stuart: write up paragraph on UB Process
[3/30/2006 4:35 PM] <jtennis> process on our own processes 
[3/30/2006 4:35 PM] <TBaker> ACTION Stuart: write up process for changing process - send to Tom for inclusion on the topic page
[3/30/2006 4:47 PM] <jtennis> ACTION Joe and Stuart: dinner on friday
[3/30/2006 4:47 PM] <TBaker> RESOLVED Will hold telecon next week, same time, to go over last-minute details.
