---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2006/2006-03-30.ub-telecon-report.html"
---

<pre>
              Usage Board telecon report
              2006-03-30 1400 UTC

Attended: Andrew, Akira, Diane, Joe, Tom, Stuart
Regrets: Andy

Discussed Usage Board Agenda for Seattle
-- <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/</a>

-- Changes to terms in the DCMES namespace (Andrew)
   <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/dcmes-changes/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/dcmes-changes/</a>

   ACTION 2006-03-30: Andrew has ongoing action for changes to 
   <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/term-changes/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/term-changes/</a>,
   see:
   ACTION 2006-03-16 Andrew: Wordsmith the justifications,
   also per element, with particular attention to "content
   of the resource".

   ACTION 2006-03-16 Andrew: Suggest a comment for
   dc:language along these lines ("Use an encoding
   scheme...") and post to dc-usage for discussion.

-- Changes to terms in the DCTERMS namespace (Diane)
   <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/term-changes/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/term-changes/</a>

   RESOLVED: In Seattle, will aim at getting decisions to
   changes in DC TERMS

-- Replicating DCMES terms in the DCTERMS namespace (Andy)
   <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/all-in-dcterms/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/all-in-dcterms/</a>

   We still need a document summarizing the issues before we can
   move forward with this.

   ACTION 2006-03-23: Andy - post a discussion for the rationale to
   Architecture list for replicating Elements 1.1 in DCTERMS
   This input on the list would become input at UB in Seattle

-- DCMI property domains and ranges (Andy) - before dcmitype
   <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/</a>

   Tom is trying to assemble the right documentation on this for
   the meeting packet:
   <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/2006-03-24.domain-range-rationale.txt">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/2006-03-24.domain-range-rationale.txt</a>
   <a href="http://dublincore.org/architecturewiki/DCRDFTaskforce/DCRDFExecutiveSummary3">http://dublincore.org/architecturewiki/DCRDFTaskforce/DCRDFExecutiveSummary3</a>

   Diane voiced concern with legacy implementations. This
   introduces alot more complexity in terms of what people
   think of as "appropriate data". We should not just assume
   that because it is a good thing technically, we should
   do it.

   ACTION 2006-03-30 Tom: to ask Andy whether to put Swoogle data into meeting packet.

-- Review of Resource Description and Access (RDA, aka AACR3) (Tom, Diane)
   http ://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/rda-review/

   ACTION 2006-03-30 Diane: send tom a column on RDA

-- DCMI Usage Board process (Diane, Stuart)
   http ://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/ub-process/

   ACTION 2006-03-30 Stuart: write up paragraph on UB Process for revising
   UB process, send to Tom for inclusion on the topic page

Other
   ACTION 2006-03-30 Joe and Stuart: organize dinner on friday

   RESOLVED: Will hold telecon next week, same time, to go over last-minute details.

</pre>
