Usage Board telecon - Wednesday 22 April 2009 - 1300 UTC

-- http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=04&day=22&year=2009&hour=13&min=00&sec=0&p1=0
   0600 Seattle - 0900 New York - 1400 London - 1500 Berlin - 2200 Tokyo - 2300 Canberra 

This agenda: http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2009/2009-04-22.dcub-telecon-agenda.html

Expected: Tom Baker, Julie Allinson, Pete Johnston,
          Akira Miyazawa, Joe Tennis, Andrew Wilson

Regrets:  Stefanie Ruehle

Dial-in Number:           1-219-509-8020
Participant Access Code:  334034
Links
-- http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/lists/dc-usage.html   - mailing list
-- http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/           - wiki

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Previous telecon

Report - http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2009/2009-02-26.dcub-telecon-report.html

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Comment of dcterms:creator

RESOLVED 2009-02-26: General consensus that the comment for
the property "creator" -- "Typically, the name of a Creator
should be used to indicate the entity" -- should be dropped for
dcterms:creator (but retained for dc:creator). Rationale: the
comment creates confusion for a property with a formal range of
object.

ACTION 2009-02-26: Pete to draft a proposal to drop the comment
for dcterms:creator and submit to list for discussion and decision
on future telecons.
-- DONE - for discussion
   https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&L=DC-USAGE&P=982
   https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&L=DC-USAGE&P=1554
   https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&L=DC-USAGE&P=2107
   https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&L=DC-USAGE&P=4932

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Review of Accessibility properties (Andrew)

2009-09-23 Berlin conclusions:

    RESOLVED: Co-ordinate development of property and VES with
    AGLS. Andrew to shepherd.

    Step 1: Liaise with AGLS re co-ordinated publication of
    property dcterms:accessibility and AGLS VES.

    Step 2: UB to ask AGLS to confirm desired VES.

    Step 3: UB and AGLS to jointly agree natural language
    definition and formal range to express semantics of
    resource-valuerelationship. (Note: currently apparent
    overlap between values for "accessibility" and "accessMode"
    properties.)

    Goal: Co-ordinated publication of DCMI property and AGLS VES
    along with simple usable documentation.

2009-02-26: The AGLS Working Group agrees with the approach proposed.
Andrew will report in the next call.

2009-03-23: Proposal from Andrew
-- https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&L=DC-USAGE&P=2658
   https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&L=DC-USAGE&P=3379
   https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&L=DC-USAGE&P=4094

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Review of DCMI Libraries properties (Stefanie)

2009-09-23 Berlin conclusions:
-- Date Captured: Proposal does not provide well-defined notion
   of "captured", but creating a new term dcterms:captured as a
   subproperty of dcterms:created would be possible.

-- Holding Location: suggestion to use existing term
   agls:availability was accepted by Libraries AP Task Force.

-- Version: dcterms:version could be created if revised
   definition were proposed to the Usage Board.

2009-02-26: Stefanie has asked the Task Force to clarify whether they
wish to propose new properties.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Next telecon - May

-- See poll at http://www.doodle.com/v6xzawrcdsvgbh33

-- Possible time slots (for discussion):
   2100 UTC - 1400 Seattle / 1700 New York / 2200 London / 2300 Berlin / 0600 Tokyo+ / 0700 Canberra+
   1300 UTC - 0600 Seattle / 0900 New York / 1400 London / 1500 Berlin / 2200 Tokyo  / 2300 Canberra

-- Agenda
   -- Accessibility properties (Andrew)
   -- dc:creator comment (Pete)
   -- Libraries terms (Stefanie)?

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Annual face-to-face meeting - 11 October, Seoul

-- Agenda
   -- Kernel AP?
-- Attendance
   Confirmed: Tom
   Pete, Akira, Joe, Andrew, Stefanie?
   Regrets: Julie

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ongoing actions and issues...

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Joe and Andrew to continue work on Coverage.
    http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/IssuesWithCoverage

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Tom (and Mikael) to continue work on
    Simple Dublin Core.

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Tom to amend the naming policy (DCMI
    names should not differ only with respect to case).

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Tom to correct RDF schemas of DCMI Metadata
    Terms to use blank node with publisher.

    ISSUE 2008-09-21: Is it good practice to provide a
    Value VES in addition to a Value URI, or is it arguably
    redundant?  (Example: "Entity Type" under "Scholarly Work"
    in SWAP, http://dublincore.org/scholarwiki/SWAPDSP).
    Guidance on this point may belong in the application
    profile guidelines.

    ISSUE 2008-09-21: Rendering of Wiki pages using the DSP
    syntax does not capture all of the DSP detail and uses
    different labelling.  It would be useful to hyperlink
    labels in the DSP rendered page to the DSP documentation
    itself.  Also, to hyperlink description template labels
    within the wiki page itself, e.g. creator to agent
    description.

