DCMI Usage Board Meeting -- Decisions
2003-09-27/28, Seattle, Washington

Participants:

Andy Powell         Rebecca Guenther (Sunday)       Traugott Koch
Diane Hillmann      Roland Schwaenzl                Andrew Wilson
Stuart Sutton       Haruki Nagata

Tom Baker participated for part of the meeting by telephone.
Stu Weibel participated as a guest on Sunday.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 1. Unfinished business from Ithaca (Tom) - Saturday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

General points

    2 meetings a year about 6 months apart seems appropriate for UB.

    Tom will consolidate unfinished business from Ithaca
    and new action items from Seattle into one document for
    UB actions.

Ithaca Topic 03: Documentation

    Action Item 1: Makx to finalise Directorate document re
    explanation and rationale for case change and post to
    DCMI email lists.

    Action Item 2: Tom to report back to Directorate to request
    them to give the issue of case change documentation a higher
    priority.

    Action Item 3: Tom to ask Makx to suggest that UB take over
    documentation of the case change and assign a shepherd look
    after the matter.

Ithaca Topic 12: DCMI Type Working Group

    Decision: Type vocabulary not to be expanded, and
    implementers encouraged to develop more granular
    vocabularies and expose them for others to use. This
    wording to appear in:

        1. Decision
        2. Announcement
        3. Introduction to DCMI Type Vocabulary document

    Action Item 4: Tom to add to the set of term attributes
    proposed definitions for "broader term" and "narrower
    term". Tom will use NISO standard Z39.19 (ISO 2788)
    as a source for definitions.

    Action Item 5: Diane will wordsmith document for reissue
    on UB list.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 02. Abstract Model (Andy) -- Saturday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Readings

    Abstract Model
    -- http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/abstract-model/
    DCMI Grammatical Principles
    -- http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/principles/

Action Item 6: Andy to rewrite abstract model after
Architecture WG meeting at Seattle to be more generic (e.g.,
not specifically mention DCMI properties). Will include generic
description of "dumb down", statement about relationship
between "dumb down" and "simple DC". Andy will gauge feeling of
WG with regard to changing simple DC to consist of 16 elements.

Issue: Notion of "core" elements to be articulated somewhere.

Issue: The meeting was unable to reach consensus about whether
"dumb-down" problems with audience necessitated a change to
the concept of simple DC consisting of only 15 elements. The
issue needs to be articulated somewhere. A final decision
depends to some extent on the degree of consensus evident in
the Architecture WG meeting.

Action Item 7: Diane to remove references in "Using DC"
to using a label within relation if a refinement is not
being used.

Action Item 8: Andy to draft some thoughts about consequences
of decision that DCSV "stretches" the DC abstract model.

Action Item 9: Tom to draft statement about differences
between application profile and DCMI application profile.

Decision: General feeling of the meeting was that Abstract
Model, Application Profiles document, Simple DC document,
and the Grammar document should be kept separate.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 03. DCMICite and other DCSV proposals (Andy) - Sunday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

DCMICite proposal was withdrawn before the meeting. DCSV was
discussed in the context of the Abstract Model.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 04. CEN "Guidelines for DC Application Profiles" (Tom) - Saturday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Action Item 10: Tom to investigate issue of URIs and URI
references further.

Issue: How to handle qualified names and the potential for
confusion with XML qualified names, and deal with any other
restrictions that are applied to how element and term names
are documented.

Issue: Purpose of application profile will tend to drive how
legacy practices are documented. Guidelines need to say that
legacy practices should be described as they were implemented
but commented that they are no longer in use.

Action Item 11: UB to refer issue of whether CEN should
assume responsibility for DCMI document (AP Guidelines)
to the Advisory Board for a decision.

UB Position: UB as noted above has some issues with the
content, however UB is concerned about the principles of
ownership, maintenance and process. UB suggests it might be
wise to make the document more generic rather than specifically
DC based.

UB needs to consider how similar situations are dealt with
in the future. In general UB agrees that there is a good
opportunity here to increase contacts and cooperation with
other organizations. The ramifications  of such relationships
have yet to be teased out more completely. The UB sees the
need for a general DCMI policy about how the UB relates to
external maintainers of DC documents.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 05. "Using Dublin Core" (Diane) - Saturday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reading:

   -- http://dublincore.org/documents/2003/08/26/usageguide/
   -- http://dublincore.org/documents/2003/08/26/usageguide/glossary.shtml

Action Item 12: Diane to change document at first paragraph
after heading 1.2 by eliminating parenthetical that starts
with "also", and adding something about encoding schemes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 06. Registration of Encoding Schemes (Traugott and Stu, as guest) - Sunday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Required reading:
    -- Guidelines for Vocabulary and Encoding Scheme Qualifiers,
        http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/vocabulary-guidelines/

Note: all action items on this topic from Ithaca remain to
be completed.

Decision: UB agrees that it must proceed with this proposal. In
the first instance registration will be on the initiative
of scheme owners (Andy's closed model). This requires that
the owner does the registering using either their own URI or
a DCMI assigned URI. However, where schemes have existing
URIs such schemes could be registered at the request of
implementers. UB will consider adopting IETF's InfoURI if
and when this is finalised. UB to aim for implementation of
the registry by 1 January 2004.

Action Item 13: Traugott to draft document setting out
guidelines for the creation of URIs for encoding schemes.

Action Item 14: Tom to remind Stu to seek advice from OCLC
lawyers regarding legal issues surrounding encoding scheme
registration.

Action Item 15: Questions to be posed to Harry, as part of
request for updates and changes, regarding authentication
and whether existing authentication facility is robust enough.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 07. Libraries profile (Rebecca) - Sunday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

A brief report should identify any further actions that
may need to be undertaken by Usage Board in support of the
Library Application Profile.  In particular, the ISO8601 and
AAT decisions from Ithaca need to be finalized. Rebecca can
perhaps bring enough copies of the latest text of ISO8601
and AAT to pass around.

In addition, we should perhaps consider, in light of the CEN
Guidelines, how we might go about formally reviewing the
Libraries profile -- possibly even at the next meeting. I
have not included a copy of the Libraries profile in the
packet because of its length; the text was included in the
supplementary packet for Ithaca.

Vote: UB approves SICI conditionally.  If the IETF InfoURI
proposal is accepted SICI will be encoded as a URI and UB
approval for SICI as an encoding scheme is unnecessary. If
this is the case the vote becomes redundant

Ayes: 8
Noes: - 
(Unanimous)

Vote: UB approves DOI conditionally.  If the IETF InfoURI
proposal is accepted DOI will be encoded as a URI and UB
approval for DOI as an encoding scheme is unnecessary. If
this is the case the vote becomes redundant

Ayes: 8
Noes: - 
(Unanimous)

Decision: Rebecca will consult with Andy as to proper
URI identification of the Marc GAC and MARC Country Codes
schemes. They will both live in a LC namespace.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 08. MARC Relator Terms as Refinements for Contributor (Rebecca) - Sunday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Required reading:

    -- Assignment of URIs to metadata terms of MARC 21 - Action plan
       http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2003/06/MARC-URIs.pdf
    -- Excerpts from the RDF schema declaring the MARC Relator terms
       http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2003/06/Relator-excerpts-rdfxml.html

Action Item 16: Rebecca and Diane to prepare stand-alone
document describing how MARC relator terms can be used in DC
metadata descriptions. Andy will review the draft for technical
correctness. Diane to use this as the basis for adding text to
"Using Dublin Core" describing how to use MARC relator terms.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 09. AskDCMI (Stuart and Diane) - Saturday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Required viewing:
    -- http://askdcmi.askvrd.org/

Required reading:
    -- http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2003/06/AskDCMI.html
    -- http://askdcmi.askvrd.org/services/askdcmi/expert_tips.asp

Action Item 17: Diane to seek to enrol other people as AskDCMI
experts. Other UB members are encouraged to do the same.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 10. Proposal from DCMI Type Working Group for "Image" (Diane)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dealt with under Topic 1.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 11. Creative Commons proposal (Andrew and Stu, as guest) -- Sunday
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Stu has been working with Eric Miller and with Andy on a
proposal for handling references to Creative Commons licenses
with dc:rights.  Prior to the meeting he will circulate a text.
The UB will not be in a position to vote on this, as it will
not have been out for comment for the required four weeks,
but we should be able to provide some useful feedback,
especially in light of the Abstract Model discussion.

Andrew, who will shepherd this proposal at the next meeting,
will report on Creative Commons' own attempts to encode basic
rights information, as well as efforts underway in the METS
context.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOPIC 12. Usage Board recruitment (Stu)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Action Item 18: Diane to draft document setting out
relationship and reciprocal expectations between Affiliates
and UB.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
OTHER BUSINESS
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Other Business: Case in DCMI namespace and term declarations

Action Item 19: Andy to shepherd the case change proposal
through UB for eventual issue as a DCMI recommendation.

Next Meeting of UB: proposed that UKOLN host next meeting in
Bath in March 2004.

Action Item 20: Andy to check that this will be acceptable
to UKOLN and advise Tom.

Action Item 21: Tom to negotiate date for meeting with UB
members. Agreed that meeting be held either Friday + Saturday
or Sunday + Monday.


