              Usage Board telecon report
              2006-03-30 1400 UTC

Attended: Andrew, Akira, Diane, Joe, Tom, Stuart
Regrets: Andy

Discussed Usage Board Agenda for Seattle
-- http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/

-- Changes to terms in the DCMES namespace (Andrew)
   http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/dcmes-changes/

   ACTION 2006-03-30: Andrew has ongoing action for changes to 
   http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/term-changes/,
   see:
   ACTION 2006-03-16 Andrew: Wordsmith the justifications,
   also per element, with particular attention to "content
   of the resource".

   ACTION 2006-03-16 Andrew: Suggest a comment for
   dc:language along these lines ("Use an encoding
   scheme...") and post to dc-usage for discussion.

-- Changes to terms in the DCTERMS namespace (Diane)
   http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/term-changes/

   RESOLVED: In Seattle, will aim at getting decisions to
   changes in DC TERMS

-- Replicating DCMES terms in the DCTERMS namespace (Andy)
   http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/all-in-dcterms/

   We still need a document summarizing the issues before we can
   move forward with this.

   ACTION 2006-03-23: Andy - post a discussion for the rationale to
   Architecture list for replicating Elements 1.1 in DCTERMS
   This input on the list would become input at UB in Seattle

-- DCMI property domains and ranges (Andy) - before dcmitype
   http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/

   Tom is trying to assemble the right documentation on this for
   the meeting packet:
   http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/2006-03-24.domain-range-rationale.txt
   http://dublincore.org/architecturewiki/DCRDFTaskforce/DCRDFExecutiveSummary3

   Diane voiced concern with legacy implementations. This
   introduces alot more complexity in terms of what people
   think of as "appropriate data".  We should not just assume
   that because it is a good thing technically, we should
   do it.

   ACTION 2006-03-30 Tom: to ask Andy whether to put Swoogle data into meeting packet.

-- Review of Resource Description and Access (RDA, aka AACR3) (Tom, Diane)
   http ://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/rda-review/

   ACTION 2006-03-30 Diane: send tom a column on RDA

-- DCMI Usage Board process (Diane, Stuart)
   http ://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/ub-process/

   ACTION 2006-03-30 Stuart: write up paragraph on UB Process for revising
   UB process, send to Tom for inclusion on the topic page

Other
   ACTION 2006-03-30 Joe and Stuart: organize dinner on friday

   RESOLVED: Will hold telecon next week, same time, to go over last-minute details.

