<PRE>
[2/9/2006 3:03 PM] [INFO] Now logging to &lt;<a href="file:///file://localhost/e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log&gt">file:///file://localhost/e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log&gt</a>;.
[2/9/2006 3:03 PM] [INFO] Channel view for ``#UB'' opened.
[2/9/2006 3:03 PM] --&gt;| YOU (TBaker) have joined #UB
[2/9/2006 3:03 PM] &lt;Diane&gt; Hey guys, for a while I thought I was on the wrong line ... ;-)
[2/9/2006 3:04 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; are you on the phone??
[2/9/2006 3:04 PM] &lt;Diane&gt; yes
[2/9/2006 3:04 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; uh-oh...
[2/9/2006 3:04 PM] &lt;sasutton&gt; I am on the phone
[2/9/2006 3:04 PM] &lt;Diane&gt; On hold, w/music
[2/9/2006 3:04 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; let me dial in again... grr....
[2/9/2006 3:04 PM] &lt;sasutton&gt; Same
[2/9/2006 3:07 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; diane: roadmap document
[2/9/2006 3:11 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; propose for next telecon: RDA
[2/9/2006 3:13 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; stuart: mike crandall and he are making arrangements
[2/9/2006 3:13 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; should know more this week - arrangements with hotel nearby
[2/9/2006 3:13 PM] &lt;sasutton&gt; Watertown Hotel @ <a href="http://www.watertownseattle.com/">http://www.watertownseattle.com/</a>
[2/9/2006 3:21 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; ACTION: Stuart and Diane propose additional wording on 5.7.
[2/9/2006 3:23 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: principle is important: that people who did not participate in the discussion should not be able to vote
[2/9/2006 3:26 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; ACTION: Tom take out italics in Process document
[2/9/2006 3:38 PM] *TBaker discussion about Notes and Recommendations ("DCMI recommends" is implied)
[2/9/2006 3:39 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: maybe address is Roadmap - categories of documentation - "step back and look at things"
[2/9/2006 3:42 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; ACTION: Tom consider in context of Roadmap (everyone to make suggestions)
[2/9/2006 3:44 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Andrew: Agents working group will have AP for Mexico
[2/9/2006 3:44 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Stuart: Education AP will be coming, but not by Mexico
</PRE>
