<PRE>
[3/30/2006 4:01 PM] [INFO] Now logging to &lt;<a href="file:///file://localhost/e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log&gt">file:///file://localhost/e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log&gt</a>;.
[3/30/2006 4:01 PM] [INFO] Channel view for ``#UB'' opened.
[3/30/2006 4:01 PM] --&gt;| YOU (TBaker) have joined #UB
[3/30/2006 4:01 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Hi Diane, Stuart!
[3/30/2006 4:02 PM] &lt;sasutton&gt; Hi, off getting coffee
[3/30/2006 4:02 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Attending: Andrew, Akira, Diane, Joe
[3/30/2006 4:02 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Attending: Tom, Stuart
[3/30/2006 4:03 PM] --&gt;| jtennis (jircii@rox-697C449C.slais.ubc.ca) has joined #UB
[3/30/2006 4:04 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/</a>
[3/30/2006 4:09 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; started meeing by going over agenda
[3/30/2006 4:09 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; for Seattle
[3/30/2006 4:10 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Andrew has action items for DCMES Changes
[3/30/2006 4:11 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Agenda Item #2 - Changes to DCTERMS
[3/30/2006 4:11 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/term-changes/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/term-changes/</a>
[3/30/2006 4:12 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.definitions/term-changes/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.definitions/term-changes/</a>
[3/30/2006 4:13 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; aim to get decisions on Changes to DC TERMS
[3/30/2006 4:14 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Agenda Item #3 - Replicating DCMES Terms in DCTERMS namespace
[3/30/2006 4:14 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; need a doc to justify this
[3/30/2006 4:14 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; flagged for follow up by Andy
[3/30/2006 4:15 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Agenda Item #4 - DCMI property domains and ranges
[3/30/2006 4:16 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/</a>
[3/30/2006 4:17 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; need Agenda item #4 before #5
[3/30/2006 4:22 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/</a>
[3/30/2006 4:23 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/2006-03-24.domain-range-rationale.txt">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/domains-ranges/2006-03-24.domain-range-rationale.txt</a>
[3/30/2006 4:23 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; <a href="http://dublincore.org/architecturewiki/DCRDFTaskforce/DCRDFExecutiveSummary3">http://dublincore.org/architecturewiki/DCRDFTaskforce/DCRDFExecutiveSummary3</a>
[3/30/2006 4:23 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2005/12/type-vocabulary-changes/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2005/12/type-vocabulary-changes/</a>
[3/30/2006 4:25 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: concern with legacy implementations.
[3/30/2006 4:25 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; This introduces alot more complexity in terms of what people think of as "appropriate data".
[3/30/2006 4:26 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; ACTION Tom: ask Andy whether to put Swoogle data into meeting packet.
[3/30/2006 4:26 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: not just assume that because it is a good thing technically, we should do it.
[3/30/2006 4:27 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Agenda Item #6 - NSDL Registry
[3/30/2006 4:27 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Agenday Item #7 - Review of Applicaiton Profiles
[3/30/2006 4:28 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Agenda Item #8 - pipeline
[3/30/2006 4:28 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; Agenda Item #9 - wikipedia article
[3/30/2006 4:29 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; ACTION Diane : send tom a column on RDA
[3/30/2006 4:35 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; ACTION Stuart: write up paragraph on UB Process
[3/30/2006 4:35 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; process on our own processes 
[3/30/2006 4:35 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; ACTION Stuart: write up process for changing process - send to Tom for inclusion on the topic page
[3/30/2006 4:47 PM] &lt;jtennis&gt; ACTION Joe and Stuart: dinner on friday
[3/30/2006 4:47 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; RESOLVED Will hold telecon next week, same time, to go over last-minute details.
</PRE>
