<PRE>
Version: Sat Feb 25 14:36:16 WEST 2006
Identifier:   <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2006/2006-02-23.ub-telecon-report.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/html/2006-02-23.ub-telecon-report.html</a>
UB log:       <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/index.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/html/index.html</a>

              Usage Board telecon - report
              2006-02-23 Thu 1400 UTC
              Agenda: <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2006-02-23.ub-telecon-agenda.txt.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2006-02-23.ub-telecon-agenda.txt.html</a>

1. Preparation for UB mid-year meeting, Seattle (Apr 29-30)
   Stuart to report on local arrangements, <a href="http://www.watertownseattle.com/">http://www.watertownseattle.com/</a>

   Stuart reports: There are three hotels around the meeting
   area. Can get university rates, but quickly need a list
   of attendees with arrival and departure dates.

2. Revised process document - published on Feb 13 at
   <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/">http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/</a>

   Discussed wording on voting rules proposed by Diane:
   <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0602&L=dc-usage&P=3208">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0602&L=dc-usage&P=3208</a>

   RESOLVED: Wording on this issue should, for now, remain vague.
   ACTION 2006-02-23 Diane and Tom: Agree on a vague wording.

3. DCMI Type Vocabulary comment period (Stuart)

   Please read, for discussion:
   <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.dcmitype/2006-02-20.Type_Vocabulary_Public_Discussion.html">http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.dcmitype/2006-02-20.Type_Vocabulary_Public_Discussion.html</a>

   ACTION 2006-02-23 Stuart: Revise table (above), removing "UB" column.
   ACTION 2006-02-23 Tom: Get revised table from Stuart, post for publication on March 13.
   ACTION 2006-02-23 Stuart: Provide paragraph for dc-general posting.

4. DCSV specifications - public comment started on Feb 13
   <a href="http://dublincore.org/news/communications/public-comment.shtml">http://dublincore.org/news/communications/public-comment.shtml</a> - will close Mar 15

   ACTION 2006-02-23: Tom to ask Mikael to review the DCSV Syntax spec - DONE 2006-02-25

5. Changes to DCMES property definitions (and dc:date comment) (Tom, Andy)
   <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.definitions/term-changes/">http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.definitions/term-changes/</a>

   ACTION Andrew 2006-02-23: Will through definitions text carefully.
   -- Check against what we decided in Madrid:
      <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.definitions/2005-09-10.meeting-notes-excerpts.html">http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.definitions/2005-09-10.meeting-notes-excerpts.html</a>
   -- Need to integrate details of problems being fixed into each proposed change.
      Refine the language used in the DCMES term changes
      document (to include rationale for changes).  See also:
      <a href="http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.definitions/2005-09-21.diane-context-for-changes.txt">http://stage.dublincore.org/usageboard/2006/2006-01.definitions/2005-09-21.diane-context-for-changes.txt</a>

   ISSUE 2006-02-23: Need to consider use of Wiki vs. use of
   Subversion for UB document management.

   ACTION 2006-02-23 Tom: Set up a UB wiki and to convert
   the non-15 terms into a wiki-based document.  Need to
   consider separating changes to original 15 from changes
   to other terms.  Tom to separate current document into
   two parts, one covering the 15, one covering the other terms.

   ACTION 2006-02-23: Diane to consider changes to Date
   refinements and other terms in the DCTERMS namespace.

6. Review of application profiles - documentation (Tom)
   <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/profile-review/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/profile-review/</a>

   ACTION 2006-01-26: Tom to propose draft "suite" for discussion - which
   parts are "appendices", which are stand-alone, etc.

7. Review of application profiles - profiles
   -- Simple Dublin Core
      ACTION 2006-01-26: Tom to prepare for discussion in Seattle
   -- Collection Description - will not be ready for Seattle - planned for Mexico, see:
      <a href="http://dublincore.org/groups/collections/">http://dublincore.org/groups/collections/</a>
      <a href="http://homes.ukoln.ac.uk/~lispj/dc-cd/rep200602.html">http://homes.ukoln.ac.uk/~lispj/dc-cd/rep200602.html</a>
   -- Agents: will be ready by Mexico
   -- Libraries

8. Accessibility

   ACTION 2006-01-26 - DONE: Tom spoke with Liddy - new
   element will not be on Seattle agenda

9. DCMI Documentation Roadmap (Tom)

   ACTION 2006-01-26: Tom to make available for discussion at mid-year meeting
   ACTION 2006-02-09: DCMI Recommendations are taken to be "recommended by DCMI".
       Is this the right message, and does it hamper progress?  Time for a re-think?
       Tom to consider in context of Roadmap - everyone to provide suggestions.

10. New issue - dc:language (see list discussion)
    <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0602&L=dc-usage&P=601">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0602&L=dc-usage&P=601</a>
    Is RFC 3066 dated in its approach to 2- and 3-letter language codes?
    The comment should dc:language should potentially be revised.

11. New issue - DCMI position paper for RDA review
    <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0602&L=dc-usage&P=2056">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0602&L=dc-usage&P=2056</a>
    <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0602&L=dc-general&P=769">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0602&L=dc-general&P=769</a>

12. New issue - Wikipedia article on Dublin Core
    <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dublin_Core">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dublin_Core</a> 

    ACTION 2006-02-23: Diane to work on Wikipedia article; put on agenda for Seattle.

13. New issue - Rescheduling 9 March teleconference (Tom)
    
    ACTION: Postpone 9 March telecon to 16 March.

14. New issue - DCAM Text notation

    ACTION 2006-02-23 Andy: Send Pete document on "dcam-text" to dc-usage list - DONE 2006-02-23

Back burner
-- DC property domains and ranges (and other issues related to RDF Task Force)
-- Issues related to dc:date
-- dcam-text syntax-neutral notation: <a href="http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/dcam-text/2006-01-13/">http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/dcam-text/2006-01-13/</a>
</PRE>
2009-01-29: Changed usageboard/log URIs to usage/minutes URIs.
