<PRE>
[3/23/2006 3:05 PM] [INFO] Now logging to &lt;<a href="file:///file://localhost/e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log&gt">file:///file://localhost/e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log&gt</a>;.
[3/23/2006 3:05 PM] [INFO] Channel view for ``#UB'' opened.
[3/23/2006 3:05 PM] --&gt;| YOU (TBaker) have joined #UB
[3/23/2006 3:22 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Andy has assigned domains and ranges to all DCMI terms.
[3/23/2006 3:22 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; We want a reasonable set of domains and ranges.
[3/23/2006 3:22 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; The one main issue: edeucationalLevel
[3/23/2006 3:24 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; In Seattle: that we agree this is a reasonable thing to do.
[3/23/2006 3:24 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; In Seattle, whether we want to do this at all, and what are the implications of doing it.
[3/23/2006 3:25 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: one thing struck me looking through possible classes, uses 3 out of 4 FRBR - was trying to see where these were assigned.
[3/23/2006 3:26 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Andy: hopes that all these classes get used somewhere.  Some may only be used in definitions of other classes - so not directly assigned.
[3/23/2006 3:27 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Andy needs to double-check which classes actually used.
[3/23/2006 3:27 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; For example, "work" is there in order to define "manifestation".
[3/23/2006 3:28 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Check to make sure there are no "hanging classes" that do not get used anywhere.
[3/23/2006 3:28 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: qst came up about FRBR expressions.  Problem: creates gap.  Alot of times, "manifestations" related to expressions, not necessarily to works.
[3/23/2006 3:29 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Eg, translation is an expression.  Manifestation of that translation skips a level in terms of FRBR.
[3/23/2006 3:30 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: difficult to distinguish btw manifestation and an Item.
[3/23/2006 3:30 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: things can be both M and I.
[3/23/2006 3:30 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; in the digital context.
[3/23/2006 3:31 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Andy: has anyone done work on FRBR in a digital environment?
[3/23/2006 3:31 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: most working on FRBR come from a library context.
[3/23/2006 3:31 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Joe: archival community: everything is a "copy".
[3/23/2006 3:38 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Resources/digital reousrce/physical resources - but we do not necessarily need to talk about items and manifestations.
[3/23/2006 3:38 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Whgat are the consequences about being explicit about domains and ranges?
[3/23/2006 3:39 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Diane: good to discuss but agree with Tom: one step at a time.
[3/23/2006 3:40 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; RESOLVED This document now belongs to UB.
[3/23/2006 3:42 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Andy: minimal aim - if we cannot agree on actual classes - where this document is going.
[3/23/2006 3:43 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; ACTION Andy Consider removing the FRBR-related classes.
[3/23/2006 3:45 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Tom: we should decide on a style.
[3/23/2006 3:46 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Andy: not convinced these are stylistic changes.
[3/23/2006 3:46 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Making explicit what is currently implicit in a definition.
[3/23/2006 3:46 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; Example: saying that a service is a system is not defining the class.
[3/23/2006 3:47 PM] &lt;TBaker&gt; we are just correcting the definition - not changing how the definition is interpreted.
[3/23/2006 3:50 PM] --&gt;| IRCFrEAK (jircii@rox-697C449C.slais.ubc.ca) has joined #UB
[3/23/2006 3:52 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; me
[3/23/2006 3:52 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; ?
[3/23/2006 3:52 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; ha
[3/23/2006 3:53 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; handle domain and ranges definitions as part of the DCMI Type Vocabulary 
[3/23/2006 3:54 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; ACTION: Tom Baker - do two or three of the type vocabulary in the domain/range vocabulary style - look at three and make a decision
[3/23/2006 3:55 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; Agenda Item 3: Elements 1.1 in the DCTERMS namespace
[3/23/2006 3:56 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; Architecture to come up with arguments for and against this action
[3/23/2006 3:57 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; Architecture list to comment, and those come back to UB Meeting in Seattle
[3/23/2006 3:57 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; Need a coherent line on why we're bothering to do this
[3/23/2006 3:58 PM] &lt;Diane&gt; Change would have a cascading effect on our documentation, we'd need to identify places where we'd need to change docs
[3/23/2006 3:59 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; ACTION: Andy - post a discussion for the rationale to Architecture list for replicating Elements 1.1 in DCTERMS
[3/23/2006 3:59 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; This input on the list would become input at UB in Seattle
[3/23/2006 4:02 PM] &lt;IRCFrEAK&gt; &lt;EOF&gt;
[3/23/2006 4:02 PM] |&lt;-- IRCFrEAK has left irc.ukoln.ac.uk (Quit: IRCFrEAK has no reason)
</PRE>
