---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2009/2009-08-19.dcub-telecon-agenda.html"
---

<pre>
Usage Board telecon - Wednesday 19 August 2009 - 1300 UTC

-- <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=05&amp;day=20&amp;year=2009&amp;hour=13&amp;min=00&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=0">http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=05&amp;day=20&amp;year=2009&amp;hour=13&amp;min=00&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=0</a>
   0600 Seattle - 0900 New York - 1400 London - 1500 Berlin - 2200 Tokyo - 2300 Canberra 

This agenda: <a href="/usage/minutes/2009/2009-06-17.dcub-telecon-agenda.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2009/2009-06-17.dcub-telecon-agenda.html</a>

Expected: Tom Baker, Pete Johnston, Akira Miyazawa, Andrew Wilson, Julie Allinson

Regrets: Stefanie Ruehle, Joe Tennis

Dial-in Number: 1-219-509-8020
Participant Access Code: 334034
Links
-- <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/lists/dc-usage.html">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/lists/dc-usage.html</a> - mailing list
-- <a href="http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/">http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/</a> - wiki

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Previous telecon

Report - <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2009/2009-06/17.dcub-telecon-report.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2009/2009-06/17.dcub-telecon-report.html</a>

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Annual face-to-face meeting

-- Date: Friday, 16 September 2009
   17:00-22:00 Seoul (09:00-14:00 UK)

-- Attendance
   In Seoul: Tom, Joe, Akira, Stefanie, Andrew
   Remote: Pete, Julie

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Review of Usage Guide and related materials (Tom)

Review of legacy documentation
-- <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/2005/11/07/usageguide/">http://dublincore.org/documents/2005/11/07/usageguide/</a>
   <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/2005/11/07/usageguide/glossary.shtml">http://dublincore.org/documents/2005/11/07/usageguide/glossary.shtml</a>
   <a href="http://www.bs.dk/standards/AdministrativeComponents.htm">http://www.bs.dk/standards/AdministrativeComponents.htm</a> 
   <a href="http://dublincore.org/resources/faq/">http://dublincore.org/resources/faq/</a>

2009-06-17: Everyone on the call agrees with this approach. Tom
will propose a packet of materials, and responsibility for
leading discussion of various parts should be divided up among
UB members by mid-September for discussion in Seoul.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Review of Accessibility properties (Andrew)

2009-09-23 Berlin conclusions:

    RESOLVED: Co-ordinate development of property and VES with
    AGLS. Andrew to shepherd.

    Step 1: Liaise with AGLS re co-ordinated publication of
    property dcterms:accessibility and AGLS VES.

    Step 2: UB to ask AGLS to confirm desired VES.

    Step 3: UB and AGLS to jointly agree natural language
    definition and formal range to express semantics of
    resource-valuerelationship. (Note: currently apparent
    overlap between values for "accessibility" and "accessMode"
    properties.)

    Goal: Co-ordinated publication of DCMI property and AGLS VES
    along with simple usable documentation.

2009-06-15 Andrew summary of Accessibility discussion
    <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0906&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=4315">https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0906&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=4315</a>

2009-06-17 Status of Accessibility discussion
    <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2009/2009-06/17.dcub-telecon-report.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2009/2009-06/17.dcub-telecon-report.html</a>

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ongoing actions and issues...

    ACTION 2009-04-22: Tom to turn Pete's proposal at 
    <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=982">https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=982</a>
    into a decision document for finalization on next telecon.
    -- CONTINUES

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Old actions

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Joe and Andrew to continue work on Coverage.
    <a href="http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/IssuesWithCoverage">http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/IssuesWithCoverage</a>

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Tom (and Mikael) to continue work on
    Simple Dublin Core.

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Tom to amend the naming policy (DCMI
    names should not differ only with respect to case).

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Tom to correct RDF schemas of DCMI Metadata
    Terms to use blank node with publisher.

    ISSUE 2008-09-21: Is it good practice to provide a
    Value VES in addition to a Value URI, or is it arguably
    redundant? (Example: "Entity Type" under "Scholarly Work"
    in SWAP, <a href="http://dublincore.org/scholarwiki/SWAPDSP">http://dublincore.org/scholarwiki/SWAPDSP</a>).
    Guidance on this point may belong in the application
    profile guidelines.

    ISSUE 2008-09-21: Rendering of Wiki pages using the DSP
    syntax does not capture all of the DSP detail and uses
    different labelling. It would be useful to hyperlink
    labels in the DSP rendered page to the DSP documentation
    itself. Also, to hyperlink description template labels
    within the wiki page itself, e.g. creator to agent
    description.

</pre>
