---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2009/2009-05-20.dcub-telecon-report.html"
---

<pre>
Usage Board telecon - Wednesday 20 May 2009 - report

This report: <a href="/usage/minutes/2009/2009-05-20.dcub-telecon-report.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2009/2009-05-20.dcub-telecon-report.html</a>

Attended: Tom Baker, Stefanie Ruehle, Pete Johnston,
          Akira Miyazawa, Joe Tennis, Andrew Wilson
Regrets: Julie Allinson

Agenda: <a href="/usage/minutes/2009/2009-05-20.dcub-telecon-agenda.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2009/2009-05-20.dcub-telecon-agenda.html</a>

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Comment of dcterms:creator

ACTION 2009-04-22: Tom to turn Pete's proposal at 
<a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=982">https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0903&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=982</a>
into a decision document for finalization on next telecon.
-- CONTINUES

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Review of Accessibility properties (Andrew)

Andrew reports that AGLS will meet next Tuesday.

As we decided in Berlin [1], the plan is:

-- UB and AGLS to jointly agree natural language definition and formal 
   range to express semantics of resource-value relationship

-- Co-ordinated publication of DCMI property and AGLS VES along with 
   simple documentation

We are working on the UB side of the first point.

Pete: Definition needs to stand alone. What is the difference between 
    ex:accessibility agls:auditoryOnly
and 
      dc:relation agls:auditoryOnly?
It seems we are encoding the purpose rather than the meaning.
How would this be used in RDF data?

There appear to be two ways forward:

1) Tom's proposal of May 4 [2,3]:
   -- Terms of the AGLS controlled vocabulary are not classes but
      rather SKOS concepts (this depends on AGLS).
   -- Range is either "non-literal values" (as for dcterms:subject)
   -- Or range is "AccessibilityCharacteristic" (to be proposed)

2) Pete suggests that accessibility might be defined along the following
   terms: 
   
        A human capability needed to consume the resource.

[1] <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2008/2008-09-21.berlin-2Accessibility.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2008/2008-09-21.berlin-2Accessibility.html</a>
[2] <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0905&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=1389">https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0905&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=1389</a>
[3] <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0905&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=5783">https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0905&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=5783</a>
[4] <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0905&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=5106">https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0905&amp;L=DC-USAGE&amp;P=5106</a>

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Review of DCMI Libraries properties (Stefanie)

Stefanie will discuss with Christine Frodl tomorrow and write to Mary Woodley.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Next telecon - June?

-- Will put up Doodle poll.

-- Possible time slots (for discussion):
   2100 UTC - 1400 Seattle / 1700 New York / 2200 London / 2300 Berlin / 0600 Tokyo+ / 0700 Canberra+
   1300 UTC - 0600 Seattle / 0900 New York / 1400 London / 1500 Berlin / 2200 Tokyo / 2300 Canberra

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Annual face-to-face meeting

-- Agenda
   Proposed: 17:00-22:00 Seoul = 09:00-14:00 UK
   Possible dates:
        Oct 11 Sun - possible?
        Oct 12 Mon - Oversight Committee meeting during day (Tom)
        Oct 13 Tue - possible?
        Oct 14 Wed - Conference dinner
        Oct 15 Thu - possible?
        Oct 16 Fri - possible? Andrew may have problem.
        Oct 17 Sat - AB meeting during day (all)
        Oct 18 Sun - possible?

-- Attendance
   Confirmed: Tom, Joe, Akira
   Likely: Stefanie
   Possible: Andrew
   Less likely: Pete
   Regrets: Julie

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ongoing actions and issues...

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Joe and Andrew to continue work on Coverage.
    <a href="http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/IssuesWithCoverage">http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/IssuesWithCoverage</a>

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Tom (and Mikael) to continue work on
    Simple Dublin Core.

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Tom to amend the naming policy (DCMI
    names should not differ only with respect to case).

    ACTION 2008-09-21: Tom to correct RDF schemas of DCMI Metadata
    Terms to use blank node with publisher.

    ISSUE 2008-09-21: Is it good practice to provide a
    Value VES in addition to a Value URI, or is it arguably
    redundant? (Example: "Entity Type" under "Scholarly Work"
    in SWAP, <a href="http://dublincore.org/scholarwiki/SWAPDSP">http://dublincore.org/scholarwiki/SWAPDSP</a>).
    Guidance on this point may belong in the application
    profile guidelines.

    ISSUE 2008-09-21: Rendering of Wiki pages using the DSP
    syntax does not capture all of the DSP detail and uses
    different labelling. It would be useful to hyperlink
    labels in the DSP rendered page to the DSP documentation
    itself. Also, to hyperlink description template labels
    within the wiki page itself, e.g. creator to agent
    description.

</pre>
