DCMI Usage Board - Telecon #67 - Tue - 2020-07-21 - minutes

These minutes: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/minutes/2020/2020-07-21.dcub-telecon-minutes.md

Attended: Tom, Stuart, Karen, Grace, Phil, Stefanie, Antoine

__Tom__: [Explains the work Grace has done as well as the
format of the mappings page.]

__Karen__: Why are we doing this. What is the purpose?

__Tom__: We should try to find terms that could be
substituted in various contexts, where you could merge
data that is expressed using DCMI terms and data that is
expressed using, for example Wikidata.

__Antoine__: Curious about the context of these mappings.
We had a small task group working on schema to DC
mappings a while ago. What is the status of these
mappings?

__Tom__: We did have a task group several years ago but
schema.org evolves very quickly. I would like to get some
basic mappings that we can publish along with DCMI
metadata terms and or publish to our website. Antoine do
you see a problem?

__Antoine__: It's not so much a problem of what we want
to do but of finding the motivation. How official is
this? Are we hoping to add this to the DC website or is
this more of a side project?

__Tom__: Actually, that's one of the questions I wanted
to ask: What do we want to do with these mappings? The
reason the previous task group mappings never continued
is we couldn't decide a way to present the mappings to
the group in an efficient way--we never resolved how we
would publish those mappings. We now have a more
efficient way to make/present the mappings, now being
able to simply click on the word to get the definition.
Definitely an open question as to how officially we want
to do this, how much time we want to put in. There are
ways to be more efficient:

- only focus on mappings to the 15 elements 
- only focus on close matches 
- only mappings to properties not classes 

Questions:
- Is this a useful exercise? 
- Should we try to publish this in an official way? 
- Should we publish saying "no garentees" or publish
  saying this has been vetted? 
- Is it worth trying to maintain something like that? 
- Is the usage board a good place to discuss or maintain
  mappings like these? 

Grace arrives; introductions.

__Tom__: I'd like to know by the end of this call:
- how everyone would like to proceed with this
- is this something that we can handle as a group, if so how would we go about doing that?
  - Github issues and one or two teleconferences 

Scope
- Do we want to focus only on close matches or are broad
  and narrow matches relevant?
- Do we want to look at the type vocabulary or other
  classes?
- Do we want to publish the mappings on the DCMI website
  in RDF or as webpages?
- Do we want to include equivalence in dcmi metadata
  terms the way that we include FOAF maker as an
  equivalent property to dcterms:creator.
- On wikidata there are some different options: 
  - Go to individual property pages and add an equivalent
    property to dcmi metadata terms and then those can be
    extracted via a sparql query
  - Another option would be to make a static table--would
    look more like an official position of dcmi in terms
    of what maps to what (functionally they would say the
    same thing)

__Antoine__: Suggest we publish mappings somewhere for
schema.org because a lot of schema.org properties come
directly from DCMI properties. Earlier task group tried
to do this. Less convinced with Wikidata, too unstable,
definitions change quickly and the scale of this work is
quite daunting. Schema more stable and farther along.
Suggest we resume Schema.org work to get an idea of the
feasibility. Exact match vs close vs broad: helpful to
keep track of close and broad match. Way to keep track of
decisions as to why there wouldn't be an exact match.
Task group mappings from before--suggests that Grace look
at these to see what differences there are. These
differences can tell us about the evolution of
Schema.org.

__Stefanie__: Were the task group mappings from Schema to
DC? and not the other way around? 

__Antoine__: Direction of mappings depended on the
properties available. If the Schema.org properties were
more specialized than the Dublin Core ones then the
mapping would be from Schema to DC but it could well have
worked the other way around.
    
__Stefanie__: Doesn't work one to one. Direction matters,
so wouldn't be able to base new mappings off of the old
ones.

__Stuart__: What is the relevence of the direction of the
mappings? It seems to me that it would be functionally
the same mapping predicate.

__Stefanie__: if you're mapping dc "creator" to
schema.org "creator" it's the same both ways but if
you're mapping schema.org "editor" it doesn't work that
way.

__Stuart__: Worried about maintenance. Would be a
challenge to keep mappings up to date because Schema and
Wiki are ever changing. These mappings will take a
significant effort -- is this worth it? Mappings are
definitely valuable. The US Department of [Commerce??] is
sponsoring the mapping of seven terms in the education to
work force domain.

__Karen__: Important to do (even if its small)
DCMI-Schema mappings because there are many people who
use Schema that have Dubin Core in their data . Keep it
simple, 1-1 mappings. These main properties and classes
are relatively stable in Schema.

__Tom__: Should schema be the focus? Wikidata? Bibframe?

__Stefanie__: I see use for mapping to Schema. I see no
use for Wikidata mappings because much different. DC used
for bibliographic data while Wikidata is full text with
some kind of metadata around it.

__Phil__: We need to be driven by use cases and close
matches to DC to Schema seem to have the most use cases.

__Stefanie__: Agree, driven by use cases should be a
thing. Should focus on close matches to Schema. Start
small and if we find out that there are people who want
more.

__Karen__: Should not only do close matches, but they
should be 1:1. Could see some value in including broader
terms from schema to DC.

__Stefanie__: Should do DC to Schema, Schema to DC
already exists in the task group mappings.

__Karen__: That would probably have to be redone becasue
schema has changed. I think we should start with 1:1 DC
to Schema getting actual use cases.

__Antoine__: Agree. I think we shouldn't determine a
property right now (exact match), could be that we find
some fairly useful equivalents that could be used for a
bidirectional mapping. Not pushing to get exact
equivalents now but it would be a pity to spot them and
not keep track of them.

__Phil__: Agree that we should keep track of them but we
should be more cirumspect about what we publish. Reason I
said close match before is because we want to be able to
take data in DC and translate it to Schema and know that
will still make sense. This doesn't necessarily have to
be a one to one match.

__Stefanie__: There is never really a best match you can
make.

__Stuart__: Yes, they're all approximate. Test of whether
the extensions would fit makes sense in use cases where
people want to do model interchange (want to take their
data that is in Schema and turn it into DC or vice
versa). Utility of the extension is whether that type of
interchange is possible.

__Joe__: Fine with this, think we should try to be
helpful as possible. Path towards that doesn't matter to
me. We're always going to be revising, just a matter of
how often we want to do this.

__Karen__: Suggest that we to a small one-one. Should do
on hack.md, which would allow us to comment (highlight
and then can make a comment). Leave what's there but go
through and select the one that we think is "the one".
Could also do this for the classes.

__Tom__: Are the classes a priority?

__Karen__: Suggest that we do a small one to one. Suggest
that we do on hackMD because it allows comments. Suggest
that Grace and I, before meeting tomorrow, go through and
select mapping that we think is best. Guess we'd have to
do that with the classes too.

__Tom__: Are the classes a priority for everyone? 

__Karen__: I think they can be second, it is easier to
get an understanding of it by going through the
properties.

__Tom__: There are not that many mappings to classes.

__Karen__: Would that be useful for people? to be able to
look at a one to one tomorrow.

__Stefanie__: That would be a good idea but we should
start with the 15 elements tomorrow and see how far we
get.

__Karen__: We dont have the 15 but we could highlight
those and do those first.

__Tom__: Go through hack.md doc, take out non-Schema.
Highlight parts that work. Other call tomorrow to go
through hackmd.

__Stuart__: Need to consider old mappings.

__Tom__: I will dig out the old mappings.

__Karen__: These go from Schema to DC so we will first go
through the DC to Schema and then go back and look for
anything glaringly off.

__Tom__: Who is interested in continuing for an hour
tomororw to discuss the schema.org properties? any
support for Bibframe or Wikidata?

__Stefanie__: Let's do Schema.org first and then address
Bibframe. I dont see any use for Wikidata but there maybe
are people who would want this.

