Report - telecon 2008-08-20 1300 UTC

Agenda:       http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2008/2008-08-20.dcub-telecon-agenda.html
UB meetings:  http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/
UB mail list: http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/lists/dc-usage.html
UB wiki:      http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/
              http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/#Issues - where long-term issues are tracked

Attended: Tom, Diane, Julie, Andrew, Stefanie, Akira
Regrets: Joe, Pete

> ----------------------------------------------------------------------
> Review of Eprints/SWAP - http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/EprintsProfileReview
> 
> Reviews (first drafts due by 30 July telecon):
> 
>    -- Objectives and Scope, Functional Requirements, Domain Model
>       Andrew and Akira
>    
>    -- DSP templates and constraints
>       Joe and Pete
>    
>    -- DSP metadata terms referenced
>       Diane and Julie
>       http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/ReviewMetadataTermsReferenced
>    
>    -- Syntax guidelines
>       Tom and Stefanie, draft review:
>       http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0808&L=dc-usage&P=796

The draft reviews are done except for "DSP templates and
constraints" (Joe and Pete).

> ----------------------------------------------------------------------
> Accessibility property
> -- http://dublincore.org/accessibilitywiki/NewElementProposal
>    A proposal for a new element 

The property "accessibility" will be on the agenda in Berlin.

ACTION 2008-08-20: Andrew to send information about the AGLS property
"accessibility".
-- done, see http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0808&L=dc-usage&P=1550

Andrew is shepherd for this proposal for the Berlin meeting.

> ----------------------------------------------------------------------
> DCMI Libraries Application Profile - "MODS" terms
>     http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/DcLibrariesTermsProposal
>     http://dublincore.org/usage/decisions/2002/2002-02.captured.shtml
>     http://dublincore.org/usage/decisions/2002/2002-02.holding-location.shtml
>     http://dublincore.org/usage/decisions/2002/2002-02.version.shtml

ACTION 2008-08-20: Diane to post to dc-usage regarding overlap with
RDA terms under development, with links to ongoing work and a projected
time of completion.

> ----------------------------------------------------------------------
> September face-to-face meeting
> 
> -- Review of Eprints/SWAP
> -- Review of Karen Coyle's Guidelines for Application Profiles
> -- Profile Review Criteria
> -- Other issues and actions as listed on http://dublincore.org/usageboardwiki/
> -- Accessibility property

The next telecon is on Wednesday 2008-09-03 at 1300 UTC
(time slot 1), same as today's call.  Regrets: Joe.

2009-01-29: Changed usageboard/log URIs to usage/minutes URIs.
