------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date:         Fri, 27 Aug 2004 05:04:54 -0700
From: Stuart Sutton <sasutton@U.WASHINGTON.EDU>
Subject: Proposed revisions to the UB Process Document
To: DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
------------------------------------------------------------------------

All, below please find the URL for the current draft revisions
of the UB Process document.  The changes to the document are
in red.  The changes include a raft of revisions stemming
from our last two face-to-face meetings as well as minor
ongoing edits as we tinker our way to perfection.

http://content.nsdl.org/dih1/UB_Process_(sas_dih).htm 

While we'll itemize below what Diane and I consider major
changes, there was one point that came up as we prepared
the revised draft that probably needs some discussion.
These revisions (as well as some of the previous revisions)
involve both substantive changes the renumbering of sections.
The gist of Diane and my discussion has to do with problems in
other documents that reference the process document without
providing the URL to the "version".  We think that all UB
references to its process document should always include the
appropriate version's URL.

SECTION 1: Usage Board Membership and Participation

There are two major changes to this section.  The first is a
revision to the potential terms of UB members.  The revised
text loosens the constraints on terms for both UB members
and the chair by making the two-year terms simply renewable.
The second change (1.5) adds text to handle participation
of liaisons.

SECTION 2: Meetings

The changes in this section again result from accommodating
the addition of liaisons.  The changes make clear that DCMI
direct financial support of UB members meeting attendance
does not include funding for liaisons.

SECTION 4: Proposals for Terms

The language in section 4.1 has been "softened" through the
addition of the phrase "may be" in order to suggest that
the sources that follow need not be considered a closed list
but that proposals may come from other appropriate sources.
Similarly, some of the language in the 4.2.1 Proposal
Requirements Table has also been "softened."  First we have
added the word "suggested" to term definitions since the UB
has traditionally taken limited liberties where it has seen
fit with the names of terms.  We again add text regarding
support for a proposal broadening the language to include
demonstrated support by "others in the relevant community."

There are substantial proposed revisions section
4.5.1.3. Responsibilities [of Shepherds] that we hope
reflect the UB discussion about getting UB involvement
in the proposal process going as early as possible in the
life-cycle of a proposal.  In a similar vein, the proposed
revisions to section 4.5.2 Pre-Announcement Process we hope
reflects our discussions regarding the UB providing as much
assistance to proposers as early in the process as possible.
This includes the addition of a table with "benchmark dates"
... our attempt to provide some additional structure to the
proposal life-cycle.

Section 4.5 [UB] Voting has been revised to reflect the Board
of Trustees suggestions regarding voting majorities.

SECTION 5: Proposals for Registration of Encoding Schemes

Minor changes were made here to reflect (we hope) the current
state of UB thinking with regard to the registration of
encoding schemes.

SECTION 6: Proposals for Registration of Application Profiles

First, we added language to broaden the potential sources of
application profile proposals beyond the DCMI working groups.
(Note: There is a formatting problem with sections 6.1.2
and 6.1.3 that needs fixing!).  We also included language
under 6.2.4 referencing the CEN AP guidelines.  Lastly, we
added language regarding the time-stamping of APs that have
"passed" UB review.

Stuart & Diane

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Mon, 30 Aug 2004 20:59:45 +0200
From: Thomas Baker <thomas.baker@bi.fhg.de>
Subject: Re: Proposed revisions to the UB Process Document
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Stuart, Diane,

Many thanks for the thorough and careful revision of the
Process.  I will put this into the evolving agenda along
with a brief summary of open questions (I have one or two in
addition to the ones you list).

May I suggest that references to the process document could be
made a bit easier by adding a section, just under the header,
listing the full URL references of the various anchors embedded
in the text:

    1. Usage Board Membership and Participation
       http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#one
    2. Meetings
       http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#two
    3. Categories of Usage Board Decisions
       http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#three
    4. Proposals for Terms
       http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#four

       Types of status
       - http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#recommended
       - http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#conforming
       - http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#obsolete
       - http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#registered

       4.3. Guidelines for developing a proposal
            http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#four.3

       4.5. Process for moving proposals
            http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#moving-proposals

    5. Proposals for Registration of Encoding Schemes
       http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#five
    6. Proposals for Registration of Application Profiles
       http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#six

On Fri, Aug 27, 2004 at 05:04:54AM -0700, Stuart Sutton wrote:
> providing the URL to the "version".  We think that all UB
> references to its process document should always include the
> appropriate version's URL.

If you are suggesting that references to anchors should also
cite the specific historical version, then all of the above
could be given in the form:

       http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/2003/02/07/process/#six

On Fri, Aug 27, 2004 at 05:04:54AM -0700, Stuart Sutton wrote:
> http://content.nsdl.org/dih1/UB_Process_(sas_dih).htm 

I would like to request that you consider not using "(" and
")" in the URLs.  I see from RFC 2396 that these are in fact
legal characters for URIs; unfortunately, they break all of
the simple tools I use to manage URLs :-(

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date:         Mon, 30 Aug 2004 12:04:11 -0700
From: Stuart Sutton <sasutton@U.WASHINGTON.EDU>
Subject: Re: Proposed revisions to the UB Process Document
To: DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tom, I believe we are saying that references to anchors contain version
references.  In your example below for referencing section 6, it might
be that through other additions and changes, what used to be section 5
in the old version is section 6 in the new or that the substance of the
section has changed (we have been know to change out minds :)).  It is
important that the references in other documents be absolutely clear and
that seems to me to mean referencing the document version as well as the
section.

Stuart
P.S.  Sorry about the elipses in the URL ... just a way for us to keep
our drafts straight.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Tue, 31 Aug 2004 09:43:03 +0200
From: Thomas Baker <thomas.baker@bi.fhg.de>
To: A mailing list for the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative's Usage Board <DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK>
Subject: Re: Proposed revisions to the UB Process Document
------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Mon, Aug 30, 2004 at 12:04:11PM -0700, Stuart Sutton wrote:
> Tom, I believe we are saying that references to anchors contain version
> references.  In your example below for referencing section 6, it might
> be that through other additions and changes, what used to be section 5
> in the old version is section 6 in the new or that the substance of the
> section has changed (we have been know to change out minds :)).  It is
> important that the references in other documents be absolutely clear and
> that seems to me to mean referencing the document version as well as the
> section.

Stuart,

The issue here is that URLs with anchors to specific points
in the document are being used for the purposes of citation.
Currently, those anchors semantically reflect the section
number, which can change between versions.  For example:

        http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#one
        http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#two ...

I understand you to be suggesting that we a) keep the anchors
as is, but b) encourage people to cite the specific version
(I am assuming that when you say "reference the document
version" you actually mean "use the URL/URI of the specific
historical version):

        http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/2003/10/03/process/#one

...because the content of what in October 2003 was "section
one" may change from one historical version to the next.
A few of the anchors, on the other hand, cite a specific
section using a non-numbered handle, e.g.:

        http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#recommended
        http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/#conforming

I suggest we do the following:

-- Clarify which points of the document need anchors (e.g., 
   the ones already anchored), then:
-- Decide whether we prefer the section-number naming style or
   the handle style (or a mix, as now), then:
-- Decide whether we want to encourage people to cite the generic
   "latest version" or a specific "historical" version.

When we have decided the above, then we should slightly expand
the section at the start of the paper -- the half-page section
currently called "Index" -- to include two things:

   -- Three or four sentences about citation style
   -- A list in clear text of the full URL for each citable anchor.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2004 09:02:37 +0200
From: Thomas Baker <thomas.baker@bi.fhg.de>
To: DCMI Usage Board <dc-usage@jiscmail.ac.uk>
Subject: Changes to UB Process document
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear all,

> http://content.nsdl.org/dih1/UB_Process_(sas_dih).htm 

What follows below is some comment, section by section, on
the revised Process document (above).  The executive summary:

-- Suggest putting full URLs of document anchors into the section Index
-- Suggest replacing Sections 1 and 2.1 with pointers and quotes from 
   http://dublincore.org/about/bylaws/
-- Suggest some minor tweaks to wording in Section 4.5
-- Suggest re-structuring Section 4.5 as a chronological account of
   milestones leading up to a UB meeting summarizing, under each
   milestone, who is supposed to be doing what.  This would arguably
   be easier for proposers to understand.
-- Suggest that if Section 4.5 were restructured, table 4.5.2.10
   might even be deleted.
-- Point out several items from the Bath notes that may not yet be 
   reflected in the revision.

I note that Diane is still working on Section 5.

If possible, it would be nice to clear up alot of these
issues before Shanghai so that we can spend less face time
on them at the meeting.  Clearing these up would close
out two of the topics pending from Bath.  According to
http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/ISSUES/:

>     BATH TOPIC 15: Usage Board issues (Tom)
>          Agenda item: http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2004/03/ISSUES/usageboard/
>     and related topic:
>     BATH TOPIC 9:  Review of Application Profiles (Tom)
>          Agenda item: http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2004/03/ISSUES/docs-naming/
>          Current:     http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/ISSUES/profiles/
> 
>          ACTION (Stuart, Diane): Change process document to
>          reflect that approval refers to an archived ("time
>          stamped") version.
> 
>          ACTION (Diane, Stuart, Tom): To modify process
>          document with regard to comment period. (This was
>          originally in Topic 15.)
> 
>          ACTION (Diane, Stuart, Tom): To modify process document
>          to try to preclude WG expenditure of time and effort on
>          term proposals destined to meet with negative UB response:
>      
>          -- UB members may (or should) participate as
>             regular DCMI participants in WG and public discussion
>             period discussions of proposals, though without 
>             "representing" the UB.
>          -- Shepherd assigned when "intent to submit" is announced.
>          -- One month before proposal deadline, draft distributed 
>             and conference call held.
>          -- Proposals must be submitted 6 weeks before meeting.
>          -- Directorate/UB Chair have one week to post.
>          -- Four-week comment period starts.
>          -- At start of comment period, UB shepherd requests 
>             feedback on DC-Usage list in order to flag major issues.
>          -- Relevant discussion cc'd to group chair/proposer.
>          -- Proposer could be made guest member of Usage Board list.
>          -- One week before meeting, comment period closes.
>          -- Shepherd brings to the UB meeting a written account of 
>             discussion during the comment period.

Looking at http://content.nsdl.org/dih1/UB_Process_(sas_dih).htm 
section by section:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SECTION "Index"
------------------------------------------------------------------------

In two previous postings [1,2] I have suggested adding to this section full
URLs of any "anchors" to specific sections of the Process document along
with two sentences about best practice for their use in citation.

[1] http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0408&L=dc-usage&T=0&O=A&P=744
[2] http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0408&L=dc-usage&T=0&O=A&P=1135

------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Usage Board Membership and Participation
------------------------------------------------------------------------

This entire section (except for 1.6) is now covered
almost verbatim, with few small differences, in
http://dublincore.org/about/bylaws, Article II, Section D,
"Selection and Appointment Process" and "Terms".
The only things missing are wording about liaisons being
encouraged to participate and that liaisons do not serve
as shepherds.

I would suggest we replace all of Section 1 with a pointer to
the above, perhaps quoting the full text from the Bylaws with
the disclaimer that the "most recent version" of the Bylaws
will always be definitive.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.1. Scheduling
------------------------------------------------------------------------

This section - along with 1.6 - is now covered by the Bylaws, Article
II, Section D, "Communication and Documentation".  The only difference
is that the Bylaws are a bit vaguer about the requirement to hold two
meetings per year.

I would suggest doing the same for this section as for Section 1.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.3.2. About archiving meeting materials
------------------------------------------------------------------------

I will write a half-page discussion paper about this issue
for discussion in Shanghai.  Basically, I am trying to
streamline the work-flow and want to confirm that the
PDF meeting packet could be sufficient as an archival
record of those materials for the purposes of preservation
(as opposed to making local copies of everything, then
editing all of the URLs to point them, as I did for
http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2004/03/ISSUES/).

No suggestion for change now - it will be on the agenda in Shanghai.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Point 4.5.1.3.2
------------------------------------------------------------------------

This point still says that a shepherd should summarize
comment-period discussion "either verbally or in writing",
but the notes from Bath (above) show a stronger wording:

>          -- Shepherd brings to the UB meeting a written account of 
>             discussion during the comment period.

I suggest we tighten this ("written" could be just one paragraph,
but at least we then have something for the records).

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Point 4.5.1.3.4
------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is "registration information" - it is not defined anywhere (this
is perhaps related to Diane's ongoing revision of Section 5?).

Suggest we re-think this point...

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Point 4.5.2.3
------------------------------------------------------------------------

I only vaguely recall discussing a _requirement_ that the
UB Chair schedule a conference call for each proposal --
that is a significant requirement, and I wonder why email
cannot suffice, at least in some cases.  Also, I do not see
that point captured in the Bath notes above.

I suggest softening the language to a suggestion ("might
consider" ... "in cases where"... or whatever).

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Point 4.5.2.6
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Bath notes (above) say:
>          -- Directorate/UB Chair have one week to post.

But this point says: "A period of two weeks will be allowed...".

More generally, I'm wondering if the presentation of the
process in 4.5.2 could not be simplified a bit.  For example,
could one replace _all_ of the points under 4.5.2 (the table
4.5.2.10 included) with a chronological structure -- e.g.,
a simple sequence summarizing who needs to do what at each
milestone, working back from the UB meeting -- e.g., at two
months before the meeting, at six weeks, at one week, etc.?
That would perhaps be easier for outsiders to digest and
follow.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Point 4.5.2.8
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Suggest:
s/Throught out/Throughout/
s/listserv/mailing-list/

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Point 4.5.2.10
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The table does not print out with borders, making it a bit
hard to read.

Also, I'm wondering if the column "Minimum Task Duration"
is necessary -- I find it a bit confusing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other points from Bath
------------------------------------------------------------------------

I wasn't sure whether these points are included somewhere:

>          -- At start of comment period, UB shepherd requests 
>             feedback on DC-Usage list in order to flag major issues.
>          -- Relevant discussion cc'd to group chair/proposer.
>          -- Proposer could be made guest member of Usage Board list.

