<PRE>
 USAGE BOARD MEETING
Bath, UK, March 14-15, 2004
Attending: Thomas Baker, Traugott Koch, Rachel Heery Diane Hillmann, Rebecca Guenther, Akira Miyazawa, Andy Powell, Roland Schwaenzl, Stuart Sutton, Andrew Wilson (Guest: Pete Johnston)

TOPIC 1: DCMI Naming Policy (Tom, 15")

Actions:  DCMI Policy on Naming Terms: Change “which are identified with the following URIs” to “which are used to derive the following URIs in accordance with the [DCMI-NAMESPACE]”.  Directorate—clarify: What it will take to make this change.  Rebecca will raise this as a “maintenance” change with the NISO. 

UB Proposed Status: Approve as “Recommended Resource”

TOPIC 2. Encoding schemes for Library Application Profile (Rebecca, 30")

Actions: 
 
ISO8601: Add to DCMI terms namespace (Approve (6); Don’t Approve (1); Abstain (2))

No DCMI approved encoding schemes for any of the following:

ATT:
TGM2:
SICI:
ISBN:
ISSN:
DOI:
GAC: 
MARC Country Codes:  

Decision Text (Rebecca & Tom): Explain the decision (already decided in Seattle but revoted here) on ISO8601 and that this is potentially the last such scheme unless ISO decides not to name “things” within their namespace.

Rebecca: One pager explaining these encoding schemes with a reference to the decision text explaining what we learned from the discussion of the other encoding schemes (perhaps revisit later in meeting).

TOPIC 3: Registration of Vocabulary Encoding Schemes (Traugott, 60")
 
Question #1:  Accept proposals for DCMI encoding schemes
Proposals to be submitted through traditional channels by maintenance agencies and other interested parties.
We acknowledge this to be a short-term procedural solution (“DCMI URIs are forever”)

UB Action: Formulate criteria; explain position (Diane, Stuart)

Question #2:  DCMI should formulate guidelines on how people should declare their own URIs (e.g. Info URI).

UB Action: Draft guidelines for discussion [in Shanghai?] (Note: Take into account the W3C Semantic Web Deployment Group work) (Andy)

Question #3: DCMI should maintain a lightweight informational database (“registry”) (short-term, bootstrapping, interim, light-weight) (Diane, Stuart)
To include #1 (DCMI-maintained encoding schemes)
To include #2 (non-DCMI encoding schemes)

UB Action: We now indicate Usage Board opinion that this registry work should be done with high priority and ask the Directorate to consider how it might be done. (Tom?)

TOPIC 4. Proposed terms for a Collection Description profile (Andrew, 60")

Proposal #1: “provenance” 

Action: Unanimous approval of revise draft  (remove “refinement” from the header text)

Proposal #2: “isAvailableAt” 

What we want to reuse in Dublin Core application profile, has to be declared (or declarable) in an RDF schema. 

Discussion focused on the use of MODS “location” as a “property” and the problems of referencing XML.   Discomfort with this being a refinement of “relation” (identification vs. access) – related to services that provide access to the resource.  

NOTE: There was a general sense on the UB that being able to distinguish between the notions of identification and access that this proposal was intended to address and that are now conflated into DC identifier is a very significant problem and that sending this proposal back to the WG to address this DC-wide problem is not particularly wise.  

Vote:
Approve As-Is:  (4); Do not approve (4); Abstention (1)
Separate Element (straw vote): Approve (4); Abstain (5)

Action:  Andrew will write up the decision to “reject” and also include a statement with regard to the importance of distinguishing identification from location (access) as a larger problem needing addressing.  Underlying issues are whether the objectives of the proposal can/should be solved with an element in the DCMI terms namespace or reusing a MODS element (Location) and what/when that is appropriate in an application profile.

UB Action: Rebecca will find out whether a simple human-readable statement can be devised by the MODS people to cure the problem.

TOPIC 5. Scope of DCMI Namespaces (Andy, Pete Johnston as guest, 30")

Action: In the absence of having a specific proposal for an element or an element refinement for consideration, it was the general sense of the UB that proposals for elements and element refinements that were intended to make statements about specific resource types would be acceptable.  If the resource type addressed by such a proposal was limited to a specific domain, it’s proposed status should be “conforming” as opposed to “recommended.”

TOPIC 6. DCMI Abstract Model (Andy, 60")

Relation of Abstract Model working draft to other foundational documents—primarily the Grammatical Principles document (GPD).  Satisfactory situation if cross-referenced and there is no conflict.

UB Action:   Bring the Grammatical Principles document up to date and use the Abstract Model as “source” when the Model becomes a recommendation.  The Grammatical Principles document (as derived) and the Abstract Model document will be maintained by the Directorate.

UB Action: Update process document (Diane, Stuart).  Andy will forward text.

TOPIC 7. Guidelines for DC Application Profiles (Tom, 30")

Proposal:  DCMI points to the CEN Workshop Agreement as a Recommended Document?

UB Action: (1) Tom will correct the text of section 3 on the basis of the paper Pete and Roland are writing on the difference between RDF properties and XML elements; (2) revise section 5.9 (Tom will post alternative wording to the UB list); and (3) based on completion of #1 & #2 (unanimous approval).

TOPIC 8. PBCore Metadata Dictionary (Diane, 30")

Action:  Informal communication regarding major model issues (Rebecca will draft informal communication and send to the list for review).

Principles
Information making up the application profile
Dot syntax denoting hierarchy
Conforming/local in terms of registration (local namespace)
Specifics:
Title.series (not refinement of title … isPartof relation)
Creator.role (breaks the model)
Relation.type
Language.usage (relation?)


TOPIC 9. Review of Application Profiles (Tom, 30")

Proposal: Library and Collection WG’s APs are the current ones in the pipeline.  The status of “conforming” is assigned per the process document with review focused on elements and element refinements at the point of review.  The AP as designated “conforming” will be archived.  Changes to the AP should result in a new AP and resubmission to the UB (i.e., for new “time stamp”.

Action:   Change process document to reflect this “time stamp”.  (Stuart, Diane)

TOPIC 10. AskDCMI (Diane, 30")

Issue:  Relationship between ongoing AskDCMI  and FAQ.  

Proposal: UB members would shepherd a topic for use in the development of a well-maintained answer regarding a topic. (flesh out)  Distinguish among those owned by the Directorate and those owned by architecture (and other working groups).

Action: Diane will troll and fix questions.  She will pull important questions and extant answers and post to the UB list.   

TOPIC 11. Proposals for dc:rights-related terms (Andrew, 60")

license (refine rights) 

Action: [straw as recommended) Approve 4; Not approve 3; Abstain 1] — (conforming) Approve 7; Not approve 0; Abstain 1  

Approve as “conforming”.  Flag to be addressed the issue raised by Roland regarding the inferences that can be drawn in terms of the relationship between license and rightsHolder (in terms of the Model).  Change to “conforming” due to the fact that this can be modeled in numerous ways and note that this way is conforming but we are not yet ready to “recommend”.

rightsHolder (new element) 

Action: [straw as recommended -- Approve 5; Not approve 3; Abstain 0] — (conforming) Approve 6; Not approve 0; Abstain 2.  Approved as “recommended”.

Approved as “conforming”.  Flag to be addressed in the decision the issue raised by Roland regarding the inappropriate inferences that can be drawn in terms of the relationship between license and rightsHolder (in terms of the Model).  Change to “conforming” due to the fact that this can be modeled in numerous ways and note that this way is conforming but we are not yet ready to “recommend”.

TOPIC 12. MARC Relator terms and dc:contributor (Rebecca, 45")

Issues: Assertion: The full list of relator codes extends the semantics of “contributor”.  Assertion: A refinement of an element (sub-property) must in every case be a sub-property of that property (e.g., abstract is always a kind of description).  How to come up with final list of properties from the relator codes that are “contributors” in every instance?

What is the relationship between DCMI and LC in terms of this namespace?  Have in place an understanding of the LC namespace policy.  Focus not so much on what is on the list but rather the LC sub-properties assertions regarding DC terms.  Namespace and addition processes are similar?


Dumb-Down
“Simple DC”
degree grantor
degree grantor

owner
owner

illustrator
contributor
dc:contributor


Action:  Andy & Rebecca will create one document with definitions and sub-property assertions for the relator terms and circulate it to the UB list.  We each will read through the list and sign-off on the sub-property assertions.  Some form of endorsement of the assertions (some form of etiquette): (1) on existing terms will be established and guidance provided on how new roles are created; and (2) namespace policies etc.  

Draft Decision:  New DCMI role term (any property that relates a resource to an agent) proposals will be accepted for terms that meet the requirements for “recommended” status only.  Proposals for terms that would meet the requirements for “conforming” (and not those of “recommended”) should either submit the term to LC for inclusion in the relator terms or create an independent namespace.  Vote: Approve 7; Abstain 1
Action:  Review process document for revisions caused by this decision.

Action: Tom will develop a document defining the etiquette for the relationship between DCMI and LC.

Action: FAQ-size answer for what is a valid element refinement. (Andy & Pete)   

Action: “Guidelines for using Agent Roles in Dublin Core (Draft)” revisions per discussion above.  Prepare as an appendix to Usage Guide. (Diane with Rebecca reviewing)

TOPIC 13. Dublin Core and OAI (Tom, 30")

Key Issue:  Some OAI users are describing non-document like entities (e.g., people, etc.) using Dublin Core.  Also they have a problem describing complex entities such as containers (e.g., METS package).  Questions:  (1) Would we like to recommend good practice in the description of these things in the form of a document (Answer: Agents WG AP which the UB would be interested in reviewing through it’s normal process); (2) Would we consider making “person” a term in the DCType list (see above); and (3)
 

TOPIC 14. Unfinished business (Tom, Diane, Stuart, 15")

UB member terms:  Original folk are in the middle of their second terms.  Current members should begin cycling off in Shanghai.

Action: UB needs to review draft modifications to DC type vocabulary moving best practice and other non-definitional text to the comment field as discussed in Seattle (Diane & Stuart).

TOPIC 15. Usage Board issues (Tom, 30")

Shanghai UB meeting discussion: Proposed UB meeting dates October 9-10.  Akira cannot attend.  Point was raised that funding for “accommodations” for UB might be available.  Some by Diane, Stuart, others(?) that funding is growing tighter and sponsors less willing in terms of UB/DC travel budgets.

Action:  Diane will write a one-pager on the Trustee’s proposed change in the UB voting. Tom will discuss UB recruitment.

Action: modify process document to try and preclude WG expenditure of time and effort on developing element, element refinement proposals when destined to meet with negative UB response. (Diane, Stuart, Tom)

Note somehow that UB members may (should) participate as regular DCMI participants in WG and public discussion period discussions of proposals without “representing” the UB.
Shepherd assigned when “intent to submit” is announced
One month before proposal deadline, draft distributed and conference call held
Proposals must be submitted 6 weeks before meeting
Directorate/UB Chair have one week to post
Four-week comment period starts
UB shepherd requests feedback on DC-Usage list
Relevant discussion cc’d to group chair/proposer
Proposer could be made guest member of Usage Board list
One week before meeting, comment period closes


</PRE>
