<PRE>
Usage Board telecon - meeting notes

Friday, 2005-02-25, 2100UTC

Participants: Andy, Tom, Stuart, Diane, Rebecca
Regrets: Akira, Traugott, Andrew

1. Ongoing revision of UB Process [Stuart and Diane]

   ACTION [Stuart, Diane]: Revise Process before May meeting.

   -- Add wording to the UB Process document referring to
      the DCMI Mission Statement, e.g. to section 4.3 onwards.
   -- Add wording to 4.3.1 of UB Process document to indicate
      that the criteria are not 'exclusive'
   -- Revisit 3.2 of UB Process document at some stage 
      in light of Scope Statement (see Andrew's action).
   -- Add wording somewhere in UB Process document to
      indicate that the recording of decisions should be rich
      enough that the rationale for decisions is clear to others.
   -- Agreed various changes to the UB Process document
      based on the email from Tom in the meeting packet 
      (Stuart has detailed record of changes required).
   -- Agreed that the announcement of the start of the
      comment period should come from the shepherd and should
      say that comments can go to either the appropriate WG
      mailing list, the dc-general mailing list or privately to
      the shepherd and should explicitly ask for indications
      of support for the proposal.  Need to update the UB
      Process document accordingly.
   -- Proposals for new terms should be moved to the DCMI Web
      site, and given DCMI page headers and a status of
      'Proposed term'. when they are accepted by the UB
      (i.e. before comment period starts).
   -- Add a new status of 'Endorsed' (for LoC statements
      about MARC Relator terms) and document processes related
      to endorsement of such assertions.
   -- Clarify use of the status "Registered" now that UB is no 
      longer accepting proposals for Vocabulary Encoding Schemes.
   -- Need a process for handling changes to definitions
      such as that contemplated for Date.
   -- Note: Need to consider future possibilities for giving a
      status of 'Conforming' to terms in external namespaces.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

2. Other process-related issues

   -- Scope Statement [Andrew]: what are the boundaries and
      criteria for inclusion of terms in DCMI (i.e. what
      'resource discovery' and 'cross-domain' means in
      practice), to be included in UB Mission and Principles,
      UB Process, or elsewhere.

      ACTION [Tom]: Tom to talk with Andrew.

   -- Announcement Template [Tom]: Create a comment period 
      announcement email template to be used by shepherds.

      ACTION [Tom]: Comment period announcement email - ongoing.

   -- Approval Process Overview [Tom]: Clarify the relationship 
      between UB Process document and Makx's 'Procedure for
      approval of DCMI Metadata Terms and Recommendations'
      <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/approval/">http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/approval/</a>.

      ACTION [Tom]: The approval document is maintained by
      the Managing Director as a high-level summary aimed
      at a general audience -- a one-stop source of the
      overall procedure.  It should link to the more detailed
      UB process document.  The UB should inform Managing
      Director every time there is a major revision of UB
      process (which is not often).  This should be reflected
      in the UB Process.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

3. Abstract Model

   -- Encoding Scheme Types [Andy]: For each of the currently
      recommended encoding schemes we need to
      determine if it is a syntax encoding scheme
      or a vocabulary encoding scheme.  Andy posted
      a list on Feb 26, temporarily archived at
      <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02-26.Encoding-scheme-types.html">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02-26.Encoding-scheme-types.html</a>.

      ACTION: Discuss approval process at next telecon and 
      consequences for documentation.

   -- Wording of Definitions [Andy]: Agreed to consider
      re-wording the definitions of current elements to make
      them more consistent with the abstract model.

      ACTION: Andy to draft before May meeting, including
      results on Date definition.

      ACTION: Rebecca, and everyone, to consider the impact
      of such changes on standards.

   -- DCSV Revision [Andy, Andrew]: Revise DCSV-related encoding
      schemes (removing XML examples, etc).

      ACTION: Andy to do by May meeting.

   -- Element Refinement document [Pete]: In Shanghai, we
      agreed to recommend to the Directorate that it publish
      <a href="http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/dc-elem-refine/2004-10-01/">http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/dc-elem-refine/2004-10-01/</a>
      -- Pete's document -- as a 'recommended resource'.
      However, at the subsequent Advisory Board meeting it
      was this should be circulated for comment to the DC-AB
      list before it was published.  As of 2005-02-25, Pete
      still wants to make a few minor tweaks before doing this.

      ACTION: Tom to nudge Pete (2005-02-25).

-----------------------------------------------------------------

4. Attributes for describing DCMI Terms ("UB application profile")

   -- Properties for Describing Terms [Tom]: At some point, we
      should formally declare terms such as "Status" (as well
      as the Status types: "recommended", "conforming"...).

      ACTION: Tom to explore possibility of coordinating with
      SKOS community in this regard.  Berlin conference in
      April will provide opportunity to speak with ISO11179
      community as well; will report on results in May.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

5. MARC Relator Terms

   -- In Shanghai, Diane agreed to slightly revise those
      definitions that do not specifically refer to the
      resource being described.  Diane posted these on
      Oct 21 and they have been temporarily posted at
      <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2004-10-21.Relator-terms-review-diane.txt">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2004-10-21.Relator-terms-review-diane.txt</a>

      ACTION: Rebecca will review these from an LoC point
      of view, as it would involve revising the master list
      from which all sub-sets (including the refinements of
      dc:contributor) are derived.  As of 2005-02-25, Rebecca's
      list is fairly stable, but we should finalize it by the
      May meeting.

   -- DCMI needs an RDF-based mechanism for recording UB's
      endorsment of each LoC assertion that MARCRel:xxx refines
      dc:xxx or dcterms:xxx.  This action was on Pete.

      ACTION: Andy has emailed Pete to ask whether he can
      work on this.  Alternatively, Tom has offered to seek
      help with this in the RDF community.  On 2005-02-25,
      the group agreed that we could finalize an announcement
      of the LoC sub-property assertions without having an RDF
      mechanism in place -- i.e., DCMI could simply endorse
      the assertions verbally until an RDF mechanism for doing
      the same is worked out.

   -- Maintenance Process [Tom and Rebecca]: We need to
      document ongoing relationship between DCMI and LoC.

      ACTION: Rebecca will write down the mechanism for adding
      things to the list at LoC.  The basic idea should be
      that LC makes an initial decision, sends it to UB for
      possible refinement and agreement.  Once LoC hears
      back from UB on the decision, there would be a fairly
      simple mechanism for incorporating the new term in the
      dc:contributor sub-list.  There is a question as to
      whether each addition to this list would need to be
      announced to DC-GENERAL.

   -- From Shanghai, the action "Need to supply examples for 
      Using Dublin Core" was given to Pete in this context.
      It was not clear whether this refers to Relator terms
      or more generally to examples for Provenance and Rights
      Holder, for which Diane needs examples.

      ACTION: Andy has emailed Pete for clarification.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

6. Element proposal: Accessibility [Andrew]

   -- "Accessibility" Proposal: Agreed to change definition
      to: A description of the qualities of the resource in
      terms of control, display and content that can be used to
      match the needs and preferences of a user.  Noted need to
      clarify comment to indicate what is meant by 'control,
      display and content' and to note that recommended best
      practice is to provide a machine-readable statement.

      Background materials - including the proposal - are in
      [1], page 127+.  There has been discussion on the list,
      starting at [2].  Stuart summarized this discussion, which
      I have temporarily re-posted at [3].

      [1] <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2004/10/Meeting-packet.pdf">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2004/10/Meeting-packet.pdf</a>
      [2] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&L=dc-usage&T=0&O=A&P=54">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&L=dc-usage&T=0&O=A&P=54</a>
      [3] <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02-25.accessibility-proposal.txt">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02-25.accessibility-proposal.txt</a>

-----------------------------------------------------------------

7. Term proposals: Collection Description (Andrew)

   -- Approved: accrualMethod 
      -- Change 'method' to 'process' in the definition.  
      -- Remove mention of specific scheme from comment.

   -- Approved: accrualPeriodicity 
      -- Remove mention of specific scheme from comment.

   -- Approved: accrualPolicy
      -- Remove mention of specific scheme from comment.

      ACTION: Andrew finalize the decisions.
      ACTION: Tom nudge Andrew (2005-02-25)

   -- Unable to approve or reject proposals for 3 DC-CD
      controlled vocabularies.  Defer decision, pending clarification
      about the ongoing maintenance of the vocabularies.  Suggest
      that WG consider possible options for future maintenance.
      Seek clarification from the Board of Trustees about the role
      of DCMI (and the DC UB) in the maintenance of controlled
      vocabularies.
      
      ACTION: Tom will discuss at Trustees' retreat.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

8. Element proposal: "Instructional Method" [Akira]

  -- Element was approved as "conforming"

     -- Change definition to: 'A process, used to engender
        knowledge, attitudes and skills, that the resource
        is designed to support'.

     -- Need to find a way of removing 'this element describes'
        from the start of the comment.  Stuart did
        this on Nov 7, reposted temporarily as
        <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2004-11-07.instructionalMethod-comment.txt">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2004-11-07.instructionalMethod-comment.txt</a>.

    -- Decision text needs to document community support.

    ACTION: Tom has posted draft decision text at [1].
    Stuart and Akira should most closely check this and add
    community support documentation.  Diane wants examples.

    [1] <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02.instructionalMethod.html">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02.instructionalMethod.html</a>

-----------------------------------------------------------------

9. Encoding Scheme proposal: "NLM" [Rebecca]

   -- Proposal for Encoding Scheme unanimously approved
      (2005-02-25).  A few changes were made with respect to
      the text posted by Rebecca: changed label and definition
      and deleted the contact information.  A revised decision
      text was temporarily posted at:
      <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-01.NLM.html">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-01.NLM.html</a>

      ACTION: Approve the final decision text in next telecon
      -- or, more simply, consider the decision final when
      Rebecca double-checks the decision text.

   -- We expect that this will be the last proposal to
      assign a DCMI URI to an external vocabulary.  In the
      medium term, we need to develop a policy, process,
      mechanism and documentation for endorsing non-DCMI
      encoding scheme URIs (same endorsement mechanism as for
      endorsing non-DCMI properties) and develop guidelines
      to help external organisations/people declare URIs
      for non-DCMI vocabulary encoding schemes.  Medium-term
      action: Stuart, Diane, Tom, Pete (for RDF mechanism)

   -- In the meantime, we need a public statement of new
      approach for handling vocabulary encoding schemes.
      
      ACTION: Tom to formulate short statement for discussion
      on UB list and in telecons.

   -- Decided to flag existing encoding scheme documentation
      on the DCMI Web site (and the registration tool) as being
      obsolete.  These are:
      -- <a href="http://wip.dublincore.org/schemes/index.html">http://wip.dublincore.org/schemes/index.html</a>
      -- <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/vocabulary-guidelines/">http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/vocabulary-guidelines/</a>
      
      ACTION: Tom to follow up with Web Team.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

10. Date issues

   -- ISO 8601: In Shanghai, we agreed to register a new
      syntax encoding scheme called 'dcterms:ISO8601Basic'
      and add comment indicating that some value strings that
      conform to ISO8601Basic will not be valid value strings
      for dc:date (e.g. '15.30').  However, in subsequent
      discussions with members of the Date Working Group and
      Advisory Board, and after a new "all-ISO8601" proposal
      was discussed on the UB list, we decided to send this
      issue back to the Date Working Group.  As of 2005-02-26,
      the WG workplan on the DCMI Website is out of date
      [1].  A more recent one was posted on 2005-02-01
      [2], in which this item is listed under point 2a.
      The "proposal from the Usage Board" referred to in that
      posting was introduced in [3], prompting among other
      things an observation from Misha Wolf [4].

      [1] <a href="http://dublincore.org/groups/date/workplan_2003-2004.shtml">http://dublincore.org/groups/date/workplan_2003-2004.shtml</a>
      [2] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&L=dc-date&T=0&F=&S=&P=53">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&L=dc-date&T=0&F=&S=&P=53</a>
      [3] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&L=dc-date&T=0&P=189">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&L=dc-date&T=0&P=189</a>
      [3] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&L=dc-date&T=0&P=1646">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&L=dc-date&T=0&P=1646</a>

      ACTION: Tom talk to Eric and ask him what is happening.

   -- Definition of dc:date

      -- In Shanghai, we prepared a proposed modification of
         the definition for Date, to read: 'A date (or date and
         time), including a range, of an event in the lifecycle
         of the resource'.  In subsequent discussion, however,
         we realized that a change in the Comment would achieve
         the same purpose.  This issue was sent back to the
         Date WG for a recommendation.  See, for example, [1].
         Date WG now has this as an item on their work plan
         [2].

      [1] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&L=dc-date&T=0&F=&S=&P=914">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&L=dc-date&T=0&F=&S=&P=914</a>
      [2] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&L=dc-date&T=0&F=&S=&P=53">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&L=dc-date&T=0&F=&S=&P=53</a>

      ACTION: Tom to talk to Eric.

   -- Explain implications for ISO and NISO of changes to
      dc:date definition

      ACTION: Rebecca.  Rebecca does not believe there is
      an impact because it is her understanding that DCMI is
      authorized to be the maintenance agency.  She will try
      to find out what we can and cannot do as a maintenance
      agency (and will also look up the date for the next
      review, which would provide us with a deadline for any
      such changes).

-----------------------------------------------------------------

11. Type vocabulary definitions and comments

    -- We need to tidy up editorial inconsistencies and send
       to dc-usage list for signing off.

       ACTION: Stuart before next call.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

12. Maintenance of application profiles and controlled vocabularies

   -- We need to ask the Board of Trustees to clarify the
      commitment and mechanism that DCMI has for maintaining
      the application profiles that are developed by DC WGs.
      This is a resource issue.  It implies getting into
      territory where we are badly prepared.  UB could only
      undertake this if the Trustees were to say it is a
      priority and provide the resources to do it.

      ACTION: Tom discuss above position at next telecon and
      represent it to the Trustees at the retreat on April 3-4.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

13. Meeting in Washington

   -- UB members should check into availability and cost of 
      flights and get back to Tom for the budget estimate (2005-02-26).
      
   -- Rebecca will reserve a block of rooms at Chapel Hill Suite.

   -- We should bear in mind that new requirements for
      "biometric passports" could impact Akira (Japan), Andrew
      (Australia), Andy (UK), and Traugott (Sweden). See
      <a href="http://www.statewatch.org/news/2004/jan/EUUSAG2.pdf">http://www.statewatch.org/news/2004/jan/EUUSAG2.pdf</a>.
      
-----------------------------------------------------------------

14. New version of Citation Guidelines

   -- Ann Apps posted a new version of Citation Guidelines [1]
      on 2005-02-18.  She sees a dependency on the revised
      'DC-in-XML' guidelines and sets 2005-09-30 as a target
      for moving the text onto the approval track.

      Specifically, she sees a dependency on:
      - namespace and location for dcxml
      - an XML way to encode a value URI
      - an XML way to encode a rich description

      [1] <a href="http://epub.mimas.ac.uk/DC/dc-citation-guidelines/">http://epub.mimas.ac.uk/DC/dc-citation-guidelines/</a>


Add:
-- DC Elements as Properties (Pete, Feb 17)
-- DCMI Mixing and Matching FAQ
-- Review of Library Application Profile
-- Title of RDF schema
-- Label for Alternative Title
</PRE>
