## DCMI Usage Board - Telecon #57 2018-06-26 Tuesday - minutes

* These minutes: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/minutes/2018/2018-06-26.dcub-telecon-minutes.md
* Attended: Tom (chair), Karen, Osma, Joachim, Sarah, Antoine

#### Property ranges

As per 
* https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/32
* https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/38

we started by discussing LOD4ALL statistics - for example, searching for a
specific term:
http://lod4all.net/instancedetail.html?uri=http%3A%2F%2Fpurl.org%2Fdc%2Fterms%2Fsubject -
also http://lod-a-lot.lod.labs.vu.nl/ and
http://zbw.eu/beta/sparql-lab/?endpoint=http://lod4all.net/api/sparql&queryRef=https://api.github.com/repos/zbw/sparql-queries/contents/dcub/property_count.rq

__Karen__: The datasets do not look representative (e.g., almost everything
from DBPedia).

__Joachim__: The statistics page https://lod4all.net/statistics.html counts
2,000+ datasets.   Only list a few, but long tail of smaller datasets.

__Karen__: Problem is that a few larger datasets overwhelm the results.

__Osma__: Part of the problem: we do not have resources to sort through 
thousands of LD sets so have to use aggregations that others have made, 
but then cannot eliminate specific datasets.  What we are doing, instead:
find different aggregations by different groups, with different flavors.
You get a few different viewpoints this way.

__Karen__: Most use of DC probably not in LD - no solution to that.

__Joachim__: We should not conclude that something is not used just because 
it is not used in the aggregations.

__Antoine__: Am looking at statistics.  Can we get rid of lod4all? 
Instead, LOV.  LOV is only about vocabularies.  Quite different from 
looking at use of those vocabularies in datasets.

__Joachim__: So if something is in LOV, has structural role for other 
vocabularies.

__Osma__: Great to include LOV as one source, but it is a different level, 
and the current queries not well-suited for counting actual usage of 
properties.  Current numbers for LOV are basically meaningless.

__Antoine__: Captures usage of DC as a vocabulary for describing other 
vocabularies.  Could look at LOV separately.  About LOD4ALL, there are some 
oddities.

__Joachim__: Maximum of 100,000 triples - limitation of endpoint and not the 
datasets.

### Domain includes

__Tom__: Seems to be a consensus for creating domainIncludes and rangeIncludes.
Joachim? [Agrees.]  Will ping Joe.  Looks like the statistical analysis is 
proceeding well.  Joachim asked a question about rdfs:Literal.  Should we turn
`rdfs:range rdfs:Literal` into `rangeIncludes rdfs:Literal` (expresses notion 
that one should use a literal instead of a string).  Is there any reason _not_
to do that for literal?

__Antoine__: We should do this property by property.

__Tom__: So we should take the opportunity to loosen?

__Antoine__: In some cases, we might want to stay with the stronger statement.
In some cases, intended to capture idea that should be used with datatypes.

__Osma__: Should keep `rdfs:range rdfs:Literal`.  Only wonder whether we can
replace generic literal with more specific datatype, e.g., for Date xsd:date
(unless that is too narrow).  But maybe not for DC, which is supposed to be
widely used, in different contexts.  

__Tom__: We are talking about a general loosening of semantics.  We might need
to amend Namespace Policy acknowledging that loosening of semantics is possible
(because that is what we are doing), but to tighten semantics seems more
problematic.

__Karen__: Is there a mechanism to announce this generally so that people know 
it is coming, instead of hitting them with a done deal.  If I'm a metadata 
creator.  In library world, changes announced 3-6 months beforehand - gives 
people time to adjust and think.

__Tom__: In this case, awkward because we are finish this for the ISO process
so that will not have ranges baked in.  Maybe announce something soon -- note
the world, with rationale for what we are planning to do, explaining
implications -- and make final in September.  Will look into deadlines.

__Karen__: So we'd need to create rangeIncludes as part of the ISO process?

__Tom__: I would argue: not necessarily.  ISO is not asking us for a URI for
rangeIncludes.  Impact on current draft would be quite minimal.  Already define
"range" (in part 1), would need to come up with a definition of
"rangeIncludes", but ISO would only need a definition, not a URI.  Eventually,
we would need to publish DCMIMT in RDF, and we'd need a URI by then.  But 
there would be time for that.  Need:

* explanation for world (heads-up), inviting comment
* definition of rangeIncludes

Would we want to invite people to comment to 'usage' repo? JISCMAIL list?

__Karen__: ISO is not including URIs?

__Tom__: Yes, URIs for DCMI properties and classes, but not URIs for the
attributes that describe properties and classes ("label", "definition").  These
are defined, with simple definitions, but we do not say "this is an rdfs:label",
but just as attributes of properties and classes.  So the impact on the ISO draft 
would be quite minimal, so in the end, from an ISO point of view, editors would 
simply change "range" to "rangeIncludes" (except perhaps for literal ranges), 
and add "rangeIncludes" to attributes.  Next step: define exactly what we are 
going to change: which rdfs:range turn into rangeIncludes, etc.  And we would 
need a definition that is good enough for the ISO document, and could probably 
be tweaked until late in the process -- need to check whether the attributes 
are part of the normative section.

Do we want lots of people looking at the 'usage' repo?  Or use a public list?

__Karen__: Think it should be specific just to this question.  Slack channel?

__Tom__: Slack is fine for chatter among developers, but when things scroll off
the screen.  Good for people who know each other to coordinate.  We could provide 
a way to submit private comments. Suggestions?  We have some JISCMAIL lists 
that could be repurposed for this public comment period.  Disadvantage is that 
people need to sign up to the list in order to post.  But if there are better 
mechanisms.

__Osma__: We could have a specific issue on Github for this.  Create a new 
issue in the current Github repo.

__Karen__: Also: lots of people not on Github.  Really for developers.
Lots of non-coder types who produce metadata.

__Tom__: JISCMAIL is also a barrier.  Other services that let you poll 
the public and save results?

__Osma__: Using an existing list would be the best option if we could 
come up with one.

__Tom__: We can tweet about this.  

__ACTION__: Tom to make an issue about this, draft a note, ask everyone if the
note is okay.  If it is, we post it to whatever list we come up with.

__Sarah__: Is the UB majority in favor of DCAM properties?

__Tom__: Not everyone voted, but people who did are in favor.  Do not see any
downside to doing that.  Alternative: schema:rangeIncludes?  We would need to
vote on a proposal to create domain/rangeIncludes.  We also need a formal vote
on actual ranges.  Somewhere in the issues I put definitions.  Osma, you found
a vocabulary with a different definition?  I put both definitions there.

See also: 
* https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/36#issuecomment-396956662
* https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/32#issuecomment-394374809

__Osma__: This other vocabulary would be an option too.  Intent is 
obviously the same, just a different way to express.

__Karen__: Problem if we define it differently from Schema.org.  Ideally, 
use same definition.

__ACTION__: Tom to ask Dan if we can use the same definition.

## https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/31

__Tom__: rangeIncludes would be a resource.  ISO proposes:

    Recommended practice is to use the name and/or URI of the rights 
    holder to indicate the entity.

So we say just "URI" (and not "name").

__Karen__: URI vs IRI?  Though that would be a big change throughout Dublin
Core documentation.  Maybe, instead of "recommended", just:

    This is the name or URI of the rights holder...?

__Tom__: Is this really what we want to say?

__Antoine__: Maybe, yes.  Actually, realized while reading ISO documentation,
wondering whether all the cases of range are not really about the class of
resources but that sometimes that thing is referenced by a literal.  Maybe we
do want to allow name or URI.  Maybe the real issue: was reading the ISO
document -- struck me that if we want to loosen the range, it is loosening just
in a specific direction, to allow literals to be used with a property, where
the literals refer to an instance of the class.  If we want something like
`rangeIncludes Agent`, it's not the possibility of using Agent and a Place, 
but the possibility of using an Agent or a string that stands for the Agent.
I think this is what is captured in the ISO definition of range, which is 
not RDFS range.  That's something that could be a difference between the 
Schema.org metamodeling property and our own.

If we have something that says that the statements of a property are expected 
to be of type X, but in fact there is no best practice about the literals.
Literals used to denote an instance of the class.

__Tom__: That goes further than I thought we wanted to go.  Are we 
abandoning the notion of giving strong hints about string versus thing?  
I didn't think we necessarily wanted to retreat from recommending in cases 
where we have taken a stand.  Still want to recommend URI (or BNode) versus 
Literal.  And the way this rightsHolder comment is worded, it really 
invites people to use a literal, which I think goes a bit beyond what 
we wanted to say.  

__Antoine__: I think we are discussing aspects.  Agree we should still
recommend using URIs, of specific type.  I was really talking about our
approach to loosening the range.  Could be a bit stronger re: things that are
_not_ expected to be in the expected range.  What I want to express is that the
preference is the URI for an Agent, for rightsHolder, but if you do not, it is
still good if you have the name of an Agent.

__Tom__: If we are loosening the object ranges to allow literals -- to me,
providing guidance on what kind of literal one might put there goes too far
because it actually seems to encourage people to use a literal.  I thought we
were dropping back to a position where we do want to encourage people to use a
URI, and _not_ a Literal, but not actually forbid it.

__Antoine__: When I see the Schema.org property, I understand this loosens the
range in a way that would allow a URI of a "Place" -- a completely different
semantic type -- which goes in a direction which would not be desired.

__Joachim__: It's a "recommended practice". People can move outside
recommendation, but we make clear what we suggest.  Currently, in one dataset
we have 1 million URIs.  Not necessary to loosen.

## https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/30 - dct:rights

__Tom__: ISO suggests:

    The Rights element may be used for either a textual statement or a URI
    pointing to a rights statement, or a combination, when a brief statement
    and a more lengthy one are available.

I think this goes too far.  Should be encouraging people to use the URI of a 
rights statement.

__Joachim__: Agree.

__Karen__: Alot of rights statements are just text.

__Tom__: There is always http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/rights, which does 
not have a range.

__Karen__: Strange wording is proposed: "or a combination??".  How can you 
have a combination of a text and a URI.  Must be one or another.  Would drop 
second comment and have it be rangeIncludes.

__Antoine__: I can think of URI but would not be good practice.

__Osma__: For this and many others, ideal would be recommendation to use URI,
but it wouldn't be wrong to use a literal - just not recommended.  That's what
I was aiming at when I proposed rangeIncludes.  Problem I have had with
metadata project: may only have a string for Rights or Publisher.  Doesn't make
sense to just make up a URI.  With current situation, have to use dcelements
1.1 property, which is more literal (if there is one).  Would like to avoid
this.  Better to use dcterms: property with a literal, even if it goes against
a recommendation, than having to use some other property.  That's how I would
try to write those recommendations. Recommendation would always give priority
to using a URI and maybe wouldn't even mention a literal.  Or maybe it would
say: if you do not have one.

__Tom__: Propose that we handle these cases with a general explanation, e.g.,
"if you do not have a URI available", instead of repeating it for every
property. Needs to be explained at higher level, then principle applies any
time a URI is recommended.

__Karen__: Unfortunately, when people are looking at the elements, they are
looking at just one, and there is no guarantee they have read the top level, so
indicate for each one.

Antoine and Sarah agree.

__Antoine__: Could customize general pattern for each of the properties, if it 
makes properties easier to comprehend.

__ACTION__: Antoine to propose texts for rightsHolder and rights.

__ACTION__: Osma to propose texts for dct:language.

__ACTION__: Karen to propose text for bibliographicCitation.

__ACTION__: Sarah to propose text for creator.

