# Usage Board telecon 56 - 2018-05-30 - minutes

Attended: Joe, Valentine, Kai, Stefanie, Sarah, Antoine, Karen, Joachim, Osma, Tom (chair)

Agenda: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/minutes/2018/2018-05-30.dcub-telecon-agenda.md

- Tom introduces the idea of the "new" UB
- Covers Usage Board procedure
- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/documents/process/index.md
- votes

Proposals
- should be possible to decide most issues without a call
- use the DC Usage mailing list for discussion
- if decision needed use github issue tracker
- in a github directory "proposals"; as proposals are accepted, links  no
  longer work; may need to modify this methodology
- can we archive the issue tracker so we have a history?
- Kai: keep them in issues as 'open' or 'closed' - that is then a citable
  document, even if it is called a 'proposal'. (Tom: could become very large
  over time. Perhaps use time stamp.) (Osma: could just use github issues. Use
  **milestones** to organize for weekly meetings.) (Joachim: use a date at the
  top to indicate which have been decided.)
- Antoine: the set of proposal is closed? Tom: yes, but: See proposals topic.
  Antoine: can we make new proposals? Tom: focus first on the ISO-related ones,
  but there may be others. Are github issues open? Yes, but stll need to first
  focus on ISO ones, unless we find that important issues are being raised that
  need to be addressed immediately. 
- Antoine: rename folder as "ISO proposals" and keep it private so it doesn't
  grow. Tom: yes, so this is a set of proposals of a current given time. Any
  not related to ISO can go into a different folder.

Project Board
- not yet filled in
- link: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/projects/1
- for grouping proposals in anticipation of meeting discussion

Vote tracker: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/proposals/VOTING.md
- use github thumbs up? Doesn't seem granular enough? Could use frowny face for
  abstain.
- if it's simple we can vote on the opening post
- Stefanie: there should be only one way to vote, else confusing; or have
  everyone use vote tracker. Tom: will continue to keep the vote tracker
  document
- Kai: archived may not contain this info in usable way
- Kai: need to know what is "final state"; people can change votes during
  discussion
- CONCLUDE keep using the vote table
- CONCLUDE use emoji's on opening issue are the votes on the issue
- Joe: Tom may need to 'call the vote' on a final proposal

Guide to Proposals
https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/proposals/GUIDE_TO_PROPOSALS.md

- rewordings - minor
- usage notes
    - definitions have had lots of discussion; usage notes are more informal
    - this is the line between vocabulary and application profile
    - can we add more usage notes into the vocabulary? are there reasons to not
      do so?
    - these are specific (e.g. ISO wants to recommend accual vocabulary)
    - clarification of examples, e.g. dct: date (how to format dates); how far
      should vocab go in making usage recommendations? 
    - basically, content of literals
    - Tom: suggest create an issue for each; see if there is discussion; then
      vote
- literal notes proposed for object properties
    - properties that all have classes as their range e.g. coverage; proposal
      from ISO is to give example of literal as object
    - literal notes for object properties in general (many users will not be
      using RDF)
    - saying that value is IRI is not helpful; instead, what it means if you
      use a literal value with an object property; when translated to RDF
      becomes two properties. ?? 
    - can we find a way to clarify that when using DCMI terms in RDF then value
      is IRI?
    - strings vs things: ISO wants to allow strings; Stefanie: no - that is
      against everything we fought for in the last 10 years.
    - Antoine: yes but these properties are often misused, so perhaps we need
      to have a discussion.
    - Joachim: if they want strings they should use 1.1
    - Tom - web site restructure; want to create one page per term from a
      template, which could be usage examples; separate from vocabulary as
      formally defined
    - Tom: ISO wants to see dcmi metadata terms more as what we would see as an
      application profile; we need to decide (usage board) how much of this we
      want to go into the main defintion of the vocabulary
    - Stefanie: examples should not be here, they should be in the usage guide

- "intended to be used ... DCMI Abstract Model"
    - Tom: formalize as object properties? retreat from this position?
    - can't leave statement as it is; ref to DCAM is no longer valid

- Problems:
    - Definition of class: Standard; as Makx points out would violate namespace
      policy
        - Do we want to meet ISO half-way with a usage note?
    - property: license
        - a bit incoherent, but needs some work
    
- changes unrelated to ISO (4 proposals)
    - range of dctype; in practice is used often with SKOS concepts; change
      would violate namespace policy; was rdfs:Class an over-commitment? Can we
      not violate NS policy if it was a mistake?

Osma: create all as issues now; also add "range issue" label

Antoine: create ISO proposal as label

Tom: there are also LRMI proposals; this usage board would maintain DCMI terms;
some other group would maintain the LRMI terms.
    
Tom: there are some big issues that we might need to discuss on a call.  Get
ISO issues done by mid-July if possible

Tom: take hard issues and discuss on github before we take them up on a call.
(agreed: Osma and Stefanie)

Regular schedule: Tues or Weds at this time through mid-July. Tom will
assign calls as needed.

