[3/23/2006 3:05 PM] [INFO] Now logging to <file:///e:/u/folders/2006-01-26.ubcall.log>.
[3/23/2006 3:05 PM] [INFO] Channel view for ``#UB'' opened.
[3/23/2006 3:05 PM] -->| YOU (TBaker) have joined #UB
[3/23/2006 3:22 PM] <TBaker> Andy has assigned domains and ranges to all DCMI terms.
[3/23/2006 3:22 PM] <TBaker> We want a reasonable set of domains and ranges.
[3/23/2006 3:22 PM] <TBaker> The one main issue: edeucationalLevel
[3/23/2006 3:24 PM] <TBaker> In Seattle: that we agree this is a reasonable thing to do.
[3/23/2006 3:24 PM] <TBaker> In Seattle, whether we want to do this at all, and what are the implications of doing it.
[3/23/2006 3:25 PM] <TBaker> Diane: one thing struck me looking through possible classes, uses 3 out of 4 FRBR - was trying to see where these were assigned.
[3/23/2006 3:26 PM] <TBaker> Andy: hopes that all these classes get used somewhere.  Some may only be used in definitions of other classes - so not directly assigned.
[3/23/2006 3:27 PM] <TBaker> Andy needs to double-check which classes actually used.
[3/23/2006 3:27 PM] <TBaker> For example, "work" is there in order to define "manifestation".
[3/23/2006 3:28 PM] <TBaker> Check to make sure there are no "hanging classes" that do not get used anywhere.
[3/23/2006 3:28 PM] <TBaker> Diane: qst came up about FRBR expressions.  Problem: creates gap.  Alot of times, "manifestations" related to expressions, not necessarily to works.
[3/23/2006 3:29 PM] <TBaker> Eg, translation is an expression.  Manifestation of that translation skips a level in terms of FRBR.
[3/23/2006 3:30 PM] <TBaker> Diane: difficult to distinguish btw manifestation and an Item.
[3/23/2006 3:30 PM] <TBaker> Diane: things can be both M and I.
[3/23/2006 3:30 PM] <TBaker> in the digital context.
[3/23/2006 3:31 PM] <TBaker> Andy: has anyone done work on FRBR in a digital environment?
[3/23/2006 3:31 PM] <TBaker> Diane: most working on FRBR come from a library context.
[3/23/2006 3:31 PM] <TBaker> Joe: archival community: everything is a "copy".
[3/23/2006 3:38 PM] <TBaker> Resources/digital reousrce/physical resources - but we do not necessarily need to talk about items and manifestations.
[3/23/2006 3:38 PM] <TBaker> Whgat are the consequences about being explicit about domains and ranges?
[3/23/2006 3:39 PM] <TBaker> Diane: good to discuss but agree with Tom: one step at a time.
[3/23/2006 3:40 PM] <TBaker> RESOLVED This document now belongs to UB.
[3/23/2006 3:42 PM] <TBaker> Andy: minimal aim - if we cannot agree on actual classes - where this document is going.
[3/23/2006 3:43 PM] <TBaker> ACTION Andy Consider removing the FRBR-related classes.
[3/23/2006 3:45 PM] <TBaker> Tom: we should decide on a style.
[3/23/2006 3:46 PM] <TBaker> Andy: not convinced these are stylistic changes.
[3/23/2006 3:46 PM] <TBaker> Making explicit what is currently implicit in a definition.
[3/23/2006 3:46 PM] <TBaker> Example: saying that a service is a system is not defining the class.
[3/23/2006 3:47 PM] <TBaker> we are just correcting the definition - not changing how the definition is interpreted.
[3/23/2006 3:50 PM] -->| IRCFrEAK (jircii@rox-697C449C.slais.ubc.ca) has joined #UB
[3/23/2006 3:52 PM] <IRCFrEAK> me
[3/23/2006 3:52 PM] <IRCFrEAK> ?
[3/23/2006 3:52 PM] <IRCFrEAK> ha
[3/23/2006 3:53 PM] <IRCFrEAK> handle domain and ranges definitions as part of the DCMI Type Vocabulary 
[3/23/2006 3:54 PM] <IRCFrEAK> ACTION: Tom Baker - do two or three of the type vocabulary in the domain/range vocabulary style - look at three and make a decision
[3/23/2006 3:55 PM] <IRCFrEAK> Agenda Item 3: Elements 1.1 in the DCTERMS namespace
[3/23/2006 3:56 PM] <IRCFrEAK> Architecture to come up with arguments for and against this action
[3/23/2006 3:57 PM] <IRCFrEAK> Architecture list to comment, and those come back to UB Meeting in Seattle
[3/23/2006 3:57 PM] <IRCFrEAK> Need a coherent line on why we're bothering to do this
[3/23/2006 3:58 PM] <Diane> Change would have a cascading effect on our documentation, we'd need to identify places where we'd need to change docs
[3/23/2006 3:59 PM] <IRCFrEAK> ACTION: Andy - post a discussion for the rationale to Architecture list for replicating Elements 1.1 in DCTERMS
[3/23/2006 3:59 PM] <IRCFrEAK> This input on the list would become input at UB in Seattle
[3/23/2006 4:02 PM] <IRCFrEAK> <EOF>
[3/23/2006 4:02 PM] |<-- IRCFrEAK has left irc.ukoln.ac.uk (Quit: IRCFrEAK has no reason)
