<PRE>
Date: Mon, 13 Nov 2006 17:06:58 +0100
From: Thomas Baker &lt;tbaker@tbaker.de&gt;
To: DCMI Usage Board &lt;dc-usage@jiscmail.ac.uk&gt;
Subject: [DC-Usage] 2006-10-01 Manzanillo meeting actions

Actions - DC Usage Board meeting, Manzanillo, 30 September - 1 October 2006

Agenda: <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/09/manzanillo/html/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/09/manzanillo/html/</a>

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Diane, Stuart, and Joe to draft
    a proposed definition of 'controlled vocabulary' for
    discussion.

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Andy and Pete to include agreed definition of
    'controlled vocabulary' in the terminology section of
    the DCAM for the next release.

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom - Change dc:subject comment: "Recommended
    best practice is to use a controlled vocabulary"
    [see <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>].

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom - Change dc:language Comment: "Recommended best 
    practice is to use a controlled vocabulary such as RFC 3066"
    [see <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>].

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom - Change dc:coverage, dc:format,
    dc:type comments: say 'controlled vocabulary' instead of
    'encoding scheme'
    [see <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>].

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom - Change definition of dc:contributor, deleting
    the incorrect use of 'primarily'
    [see <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>].

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom to create a decision document
    on the basis of the public comment document, making all
    changes recorded here and correcting the bullet points
    (summaries of changes made) accordingly
    [see <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>].

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom - On the basis of the decision document,
    Tom to issue a new set of terms
    [see <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>].

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom - On the basis of the decision document,
    Tom to create a consolidated report of all changes made
    to DCMES since approval by NISO -- including changes made
    between 2001 and 2004. This report will be submitted to
    NISO for approval as a new NISO Standard.

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom to go through DCMI Terms document
    and prepare a document setting out proposed changes
    (most of which are dependent on the DCMES changes) for
    public comment.

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom - Change dc:source definition to read:
    "The resource from which the described resource is derived"
    [see <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>].

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Joe to locate and circulate a current
    definition of 'genre'.

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom - Add "or a geographic place to which
    the resource applies" to the comment for Coverage
    [see <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>].

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom - Change definition of dc:coverage 
    to: "The spatial or temporal topic of the resource, the spatial
    applicability of the resource, or the jurisdiction under
    which the resource is relevant."
    [see <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>].

    ACTION 2006-09-30: Tom to write a public response to the
    comments received, including the above reasoning for not
    accepting proposed changes for Relation.

    ACTION 2006-10-01: Andy to consider UB suggestions (as 
    documented in
    <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2006/2006-10-01.meeting-notes-manzanillo.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/html/2006-10-01.meeting-notes-manzanillo.html</a>)
    in revising the Domain and Range vocabulary.

    ACTION 2006-10-01: Suggestion to DCAM authors: Syntax Encoding Schemes:
    Amend definition to include 'or enumerated list of strings' after 'string'.

    ACTION 2006-10-01: Suggestion to DCAM authors: Vocabulary
    Encoding Schemes: Amend definition to read: "A vocabulary
    encoding scheme is an enumerable set of resources".
    Need to acknowledge that the string(s) specified by a
    SES actually have an underlying concept space.

    ACTION 2006-10-01: Joe and Pete to summarise concisely the
    relationship between SES, VES and things as illuminated
    by the UB discussion. Must address the issue of whether
    syntax encoding schemes map to RDF datatypes.

    ACTION 2006-10-01: Suggestion to DCAM authors: see UB
    categorisation of existing schemes (see
    <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2006/2006-10-01.meeting-notes-manzanillo.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/html/2006-10-01.meeting-notes-manzanillo.html</a>).

    ACTION 2006-10-01: Andy will revise Andrew's paragraph in
    the review report about the model used for the CD AP; a
    better explanation is needed. This is to include a statement
    about how the model in the application profile diverges or
    amends the AMCC model used as the basis for this application
    profile.
 
    ACTION 2006-10-01: Andrew to track the new actions arising
    from the meeting and ensure their completion.  Basis:
    <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2006/2006-10-01.meeting-notes-manzanillo.html">http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/html/2006-10-01.meeting-notes-manzanillo.html</a>.
 
    ACTION 2006-10-01: Andrew to formally write up the
    outcomes of the review process to include a good
    stand-alone description of the application profile and
    a characterisation of the types of conformance testing,
    with a description of the testing process. Andrew is to
    prepare feedback to the Working Group independently of
    the formal statement.
 
    ACTION 2006-10-01: Stuart to review the section of the
    process document which concerns the requirements for
    conforming status for application profiles, as part of a
    general review of the language of the process document.
 
    ACTION 2006-10-01: Tom and Andrew to work on refining the
    set of questions for reviewing application profiles and the
    way in which they are asked. Three essential criteria are:
       1. conformance to the abstract model 
       2. internal consistency
       3. relationship of terms in the application profile to
          existing DC terms.

   ACTION 2006-10-01: Andrew to draft a review document
   for the CD application profile and circulate it to the
   UB. Andrew to prepare feedback for the CD working group
   and circulate it to the UB.

   ACTION 2006-10-01: Tom to check DCTerms definitions for consistency
   with changed DCMES definitions, and prepare a document to
   summarise nature of changes made. To be done via the UB
   Wiki? Andy has a suggestion about how to prepare a before
   and after document using HTML Diff.

   ACTION 2006-10-01: Tom to replace the Principles document
   at <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/principles/">http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/principles/</a> with a
   page that copies the definitions of elements etc from DCAM
   and includes a short text stating: that the document which
   used to live here has been superseded by the DCAM. Update
   UB page to say we do things in light of the DCAM.  
   
   ACTION 2006-10-01: Tom to look through DCMI site and note those pages
   where a reference to the principles document needs to be
   changed to a reference to the DCAM as appropriate.

   ACTION 2006-10-01: Andy and Pete to add HTML anchors to
   the DCAM document for the next release of the DCAM.

   ACTION 2006-10-01: Andy, Pete and Tom to create a new
   DC namespace for term classes, agree on namespace URI,
   declare PURLs for the term classes, update namespace policy
   and agree on maintenance policy for the new namespace.

   ACTION 2006-10-01: Andy and Pete to create RDFS declaration
   of term type classes.

   ACTION 2006-10-01: Eventually, once term type classes
   have been approved, Tom to insert PURLs in the DCTerms
   documentation replacing the current URIs to the principles
   document.

</PRE>
2009-01-29: Changed usageboard/log URIs to usage/minutes URIs.
