<PRE>
Log file opened at: 8/11/06 9:06:16 AM
[9:06:16 AM]  [9:04:32 AM] *** You have joined the channel
[9:07:39 AM] Diane I'm here, really
[9:07:43 AM] jtennis haha
[9:07:58 AM] jtennis do you see me now?
[9:09:06 AM] *** sasutton (chatzilla@rox-53C9B094.nat.washington.edu) has joined the channel
[9:11:36 AM] *** tbaker has quit IRC (Ping timeout)
[9:12:34 AM] Diane Tom explained about the challenges of working with the Mexico organizers, still are not able to accept credit cards
[9:12:57 AM] Diane Tom has heard from everyone about arrangements but things are quite behind still
[9:14:34 AM] Diane Agenda item: Type vocabulary changes
[9:15:08 AM] Diane Scheduled to go live on Aug 28th, has been vetted by Joe and Stuart, 
[9:16:02 AM] Diane Joe is concerned that we are not using the ISO standard for this, would be good to consider that; Tom notes that we have considered it in the past, and would welcome a proposal from Joe for harmonization
[9:16:13 AM] Diane Agenda item: Collection description
[9:17:00 AM] Diane Tom has been talking to Juha and Pete about maintaining the terms, it is likely (though not yet certain) that the National Library of Finland would take on the maintenance
[9:18:07 AM] Diane There is also a move to harmonize the CD AP with a NISO draft standard Z39.91 (number uncertain)
[9:18:44 AM] Diane There seems to be some overlap with this and the AP, though there are divergences
[9:20:16 AM] Diane Tom: what we want to do in Colima is to review for conformance, disregarding issue of a home for the terms
[9:21:09 AM] Diane Tom: One of the big issues is how do we manage this? Checklist with quantitative rating? 
[9:21:55 AM] Diane Tom: In the coming weeks we'll need to divide up the tasks and ensure that we have as much as possible available in the packet for Colima
[9:22:47 AM] Diane Tom: In the agenda for the last call is the preliminary plan we had prior to Madrid, should we use that? 
[9:23:46 AM] Diane Andrew: Until we've decided that they don't work, we should use the criteria we've already decided upon
[9:26:08 AM] *** tbaker (chatzilla@E45EF38B.72BF89D6.3496D950.IP) has joined the channel
[9:26:14 AM] Diane Hi Tom
[9:28:45 AM] Diane Andrew is proposing to pull together the notes on criteria and process from Madrid and Seattle.  He suggests that two people read the AP based on those criteria and send their notes to the group. 
[9:29:15 AM] *** tbaker has quit IRC (Ping timeout)
[9:29:49 AM] Diane Tom: We need to figure out how the tasks can usefully be broken out.
[9:31:31 AM] Diane Tom: the review should cover functional requirements (how well does it do what it professes, etc.) and other criteria, should result in about a three page evaluation.  Needs other points of view as well, which can be assigned
[9:32:08 AM] Diane Tom: Like having a series of mini-shepherds, with the main shepherd pulling it together
[9:32:54 AM] Diane Tom compares the process as similar to reading a paper for a conference review
[9:34:32 AM] Diane Tom: we should take a stand on issues of conformance with the AM as well as our ideas about what the AP is and should do (still fuzzy)
[9:36:01 AM] Diane Tom will take an action to send the page for the Madrid meeting and other information around as we pull ourselves together for this task.
[9:38:42 AM] sasutton Here's the NISO draft-- <a href="http://www.niso.org/standards/standard_detail.cfm?std_id=815">http://www.niso.org/standards/standard_detail.cfm?std_id=815</a>
[9:40:43 AM] Diane Tom: NISO may use our review of the CD AP as part of their work on the NISO draft (?)
[9:43:29 AM] Diane Tom: One area where our document is deficient is in documenting terms that are declared somewhere else
[9:44:05 AM] Diane Tom: We need to articulate what our expectations are for documentation
[9:45:26 AM] Diane Tom: We should also come up with changes needed for our own process documentation as part of this review
[9:46:33 AM] Diane Tom: If Andrew can articulate the questions, names can be assigned in next week's call and deadlines (Note: Diane will not be on next week's call)
[9:47:17 AM] Diane Mid-Sept. is the tentative deadline for the packet
[9:48:33 AM] Diane Tom will get out the document with the final changes to the legacy terms, in order to go over them at next week's call to publish them by Aug. 28 and get the comment period started
[9:49:02 AM] Diane Later this year the revised terms need to be ready for the NISO review of DC
[9:49:36 AM] Diane We might have time to organize a second comment period if needed
[9:50:53 AM] Diane There are a number of issues related to revision of the AM, Tom will meet with Andy, Pete and Mikael to see how these will affect the UB, for instance in the ranges
[9:52:20 AM] *** sasutton has left the channel ()
[9:53:12 AM] Info The connection to the server is no longer active
Log file closed at: 8/11/06 9:53:19 AM

</PRE>
