---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2005/2005-02-25.UB-Telecon-agenda.html"
---

<pre>
AGENDA FOR USAGE BOARD CALL

Version: 2005-02-24, 15:43 UTC

Date and time of conference:

    Friday, 25 February, at 2100UTC
    UTC 2100
    Bath 2100
    Berlin 2200
    Tokyo 0600
    Canberra 0700
    Seattle 1300
    Ithaca 1600

Expected participants:

  Andy        
  Tom         
  Akira
  Stuart
  Diane
  Rebecca

May not attend:

  Traugott
  Andrew

Agenda

1) Review of Meeting Notes, temporarily posted at
   <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/Meeting-notes.txt">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/Meeting-notes.txt</a>.
   We should walk through these, review actions, get updates,
   set priorities, and generally map out what needs to be done 
   before the May meeting.

2) Accessibility - Discuss so we can wrap this up. See threads
   starting on Feb 4, <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind05028&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;O=A&amp;P=54">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind05028&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;O=A&amp;P=54</a>

3) NLM proposal from Rebecca. Process-wise, I think we would vote
   on this over the list, but we should discuss it here, in case there
   are any problems. See <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0501&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;O=A&amp;P=978">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0501&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;O=A&amp;P=978</a>

4) AOB

----

Title: Meeting notes for DCMI Usage Board meeting,
       9-10 October 2004, at Shanghai Library
Date: 2004-10-19
Note: This document is a running account of decisions
       taken in the Usage Board meeting in Shanghai.
       It was created by Andy Powell with minor
       corrections and additions by Tom Baker. It is
       intended for internal use by the Usage Board
       in finalizing its decisions. A more readable,
       contextualized summary of the meeting will
       be prepared for dissemination to the general
       public. After posting on the DC-USAGE-BC list
       on 2004-10-19, this document will be considered
       frozen.

DC Usage Board Meeting
Shanghai
Day 1 - 9 October 2004

Present: Tom Baker, Eva Mendez (guest), Diane Hillman, Andrew
Wilson, Rebecca Guenther, Pete Johnston (guest), Andy Powell,
Stuart Sutton, Traugott Koch, Akira Miyazawa (joined at 15.00
on first day)

Revisions to DCMI Process Document

* Add wording to the UB Process document referring to
    the DCMI Mission Statement, e.g. to section 4.3 onwards --
    Action: Stuart.

* Add wording to 4.3.1 of UB Process document to indicate
    that the criteria are not 'exclusive' -- Action: Stuart.

* Create statement of what the boundaries are for
    inclusion of terms in DCMI (i.e. what 'resource discovery'
    and 'cross-domain' means in practice) and include into UB
    Mission and Principles or elsewhere -- Action: Andrew.

* Note: we will need to revisit 3.2 of UB Process
    document at some stage in light of statement above.

* Add wording somewhere in UB Process document to
    indicate that the recording of decisions should be rich
    enough that the rationale for decisions is clear to others --
    Action: Stuart.

* Agreed various changes to the UB Process document
    based on the email from Tom in the meeting packet (Stuart
    has detailed record of changes required) -- Action: Stuart

* Agreed that the announcement of the start of the
    comment period should come from the shepherd and should say
    that comments can go to either the appropriate WG mailing
    list, the dc-general mailing list or privately to the shepherd
    and should explicitly ask for indications of support for the
    proposal. Need to update the UB Process document accordingly
    -- Action: Stuart

* Agreed to create a comment period announcement email
    template to be used by shepherds -- Action: Tom

Status of Proposals to the Usage Board

* Need to clarify the relationship between
    UB Process document and Makx's 'Procedure for
    approval of DCMI Metadata Terms and Recommendations'
    <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/approval/">http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/approval/</a> - Action: Tom

* Proposals for new terms should be moved to the DCMI Web
    site, and given DCMI page headers and a status of 'Proposed
    term'. when they are accepted by the UB (i.e. before comment
    period starts). UB Process document needs to be updated to
    say this. -- Action: Stuart

Abstract Model

* For each of the currently recommended encoding schemes
    we need to determine if it is a syntax encoding scheme or
    a vocabulary encoding scheme. Tom to share previous notes
    on this. Andy to prepare list of suggestions -- Action: Andy

* Agreed to consider re-wording the definitions
    of current elements to make them more consistent with the
    abstract model. Need to draft some proposed changes initially.
    Action: Andy

DCSV

* Previous action to revise DCSV-related encoding
    schemes carried forward -- Action: Andy and Andrew

(Akira joined the meeting at this point.)

Versioning of DCMI 'term descriptions'

* Agreed to continue the current practice of treating
    the DCMI description of a DCMI term as a discrete 'bundle of
    metadata' that is assigned a new URI each time the 'bundle'
    is updated.

Attributes for describing DCMI Terms ("UB application profile")

* Agreed that we need to

    o EITHER re-use existing OWL/RDFS terms and create new
        UB- specific terms (in UB namespaces - 'UB terms', 'UB term
        types', 'UB encoding scheme types' and 'UB status types')
        to describe all DCMI terms
    
    o OR liaise with ISO11179 about re-using their terms
        (which requires them assigning URIRefs for those terms and
        have an underlying RDF model).

* Need to talk to Harry in first instance about
    possibilities for second option -- Action: Tom and Rebecca
    MARC Relator Terms

* Agreed to slightly revise those definitions that do
    not specifically refer to the resource being described --
    Action: Diane

* Agreed to reject 'MARCRel:bibliographic
    antecedent', and 'MARCRel:sponsor'. Also agreed to make
    'MARCRel:Contributor' and 'MARCRel:publisher' sub-properties
    of dc:contributor and dc:publisher respectively. Need to
    produce revised list -- Action: Rebecca

* DCMI needs an RDF-based mechanism for recording UB's
    endorsment of each LoC assertion that MARCRel:xxx refines
    dc:xxx or dcterms:xxx -- Action: Pete

* Need to update the UB Process document to include a
    new status of 'Endorsed' and document related processes --
    Action: Stuart

* Need to consider future possibilities for giving a
    status of 'Conforming' to terms in external namespaces.

* Need to supply examples for Using Dublin Core --
    Action: Pete

* Need to document ongoing relationship between DCMI
    and LoC (see action 4 on page 93 of meeting pack) -- Action:
    Tom, Rebecca

End of day 1

DC Usage Board Meeting
Shanghai
Day 2 - 10 October 2004

Present: Tom Baker, Eva Mendez (guest), Diane Hillman, Andrew
Wilson, Rebecca Guenther, Pete Johnston (guest), Andy Powell,
Stuart Sutton, Traugott Koch, Akira Miyazawa, Liddy Nevile
(guest), Charles McCathie-Nevile (guest), Juha Hakala (guest),
Jeni Stenval (guest), Dan Brickley (guest), Raju Buddharaju 
(guest).

Element Refinement document

* Agreed to publish Pete's document as a 'recommended
    resource'. Supply copy of document to Makx -- Action: Pete

Element proposal: Accessibility

* Agreed to change definition to: A description of the
    qualities of the resource in terms of control, display and
    content that can be used to match the needs and preferences
    of a user.

* Vote (as Recommended): For -- 8, Against -- 0,
    Abstain - 0

* Note: need to clarify comment to indicate what is meant
    by 'control, display and content' and to note that recommended
    best practice is to provide a machine-readable statement --
    Action: Stuart

(Liddy left at this point -- Dan B joined)

Term proposals: Collection Description

* accrualMethod -- Vote (as Conforming): For - 7,
    Against - 0 Abstain - 1. Change 'method' to 'process' in the
    definition. Remove mention of specific scheme from comment.

* accrualPeriodicity -- Vote (as Conforming): For - 7,
    Against - 0, Abstain -- 1. Remove mention of specific scheme
    from comment.

* accrualPolicy -- Vote (as Conforming): For - 7,
    Against - 0, Abstain -- 1. Remove mention of specific scheme
    from comment.

* Unable to approve or reject proposals for 3 DC-CD
    controlled vocabularies. Defer decision, pending clarification
    about the ongoing maintenance of the vocabularies. Suggest
    that WG consider possible options for future maintenance.
    Seek clarification from the Board of Trustees about the role
    of DCMI (and the DC UB) in the maintenance of controlled
    vocabularies -- Action: Tom

Term proposal: Education 

* Change definition to: 'A process, used to engender
    knowledge, attitudes and skills, that the resource is designed
    to support'.

* Need to find a way of removing 'this element describes'
    from the start of the comment -- Action: Stuart

* Decision text needs to document community support.

* Vote (as Conforming): for -- 8, against -- 0 abstain --
    0 Encoding scheme approval

* Agreed we will, in principle, accept a proposal for
    'NLM' as a vocabulary encoding scheme with a DCTERMS URI

* Need to prepare proposal and discuss with NLM --
    Action: Rebecca

* Expectation that this will be the last proposal to
    assign a DCMI URI to an external vocabulary. Need to develop
    a policy, process, mechanism and documentation for endorsing
    non-DCMI encoding scheme URIs (same endorsement mechanism as
    for endorsing non-DCMI properties) and develop guidelines to
    help external organisations/people declare URIs for non-DCMI
    vocabulary encoding schemes (to note that preference is
    for owners to declare URIs for their own vocabularies).
    Note impact on status of 'Registered' in current UB Process
    document -- Action: Stuart, Diane, Tom (Pete for RDF mechanism)

* Need a public statement of new approach for handling
    vocabulary encoding schemes -- Action: Tom

* Need to flag existing encoding scheme documentation
    on the DCMI Web site (and the registration tool) as being
    obsolete -- Action: Tom 

ISO 8601

* Agreed to register a new syntax encoding scheme called
    'dcterms:ISO8601Basic' and add comment indicating that some
    value strings that conform to ISO8601Basic will not be valid
    value strings for dc:date (e.g. '15.30').

* Need to reformulate the decision text -- Action:
    Rebecca 
    
Type vocabulary definitions and comments

* Need to tidy up editorial inconsistencies and send
    to dc-usage list for signing off -- Action: Stuart

Definition of dc:date

* Proposed re-definition: 'A date (or date and time),
    including a range, of an event in the lifecycle of the
    resource'. Suggest this to the DC Date WG as a new definition
    of dc:date and ask for their comments -- Action: Rebecca.

* Need a new process for handling changes to definitions
    like this -- Action: Diane and Stuart.

* Explain implications for ISO and NISO of changes to
    dc:date definition -- Action: Rebecca

Review of application profiles

* Need to ask the Board of Trustees to clarify the
    commitment and mechanism that DCMI has for maintaining the
    application profiles that are developed by DC WGs.

Preservation policy for DCMI documentation

* Agreed that the PDF version of the meeting packet is
    sufficient for preservation purposes.

DCX Proposal

* DCMI does not host experimental or short term
    namespaces. Discuss response to requester with Makx --
    Action: Juha (as visitor) 
    
What is Simple Dublin Core?

* Some discussion about what 'simple DC' means but no
    real concensus reached. AskDCMI and FAQ

* Some discussion about 'issues' and updates to the
    AskDCMI system, but no decisions made due to lack of time.

End of day 2

Notes taken by Andy Powell

-- 
Dr. Thomas Baker Thomas.Baker@izb.fraunhofer.de
Institutszentrum Schloss Birlinghoven mobile +49-160-9664-2129
Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft work +49-30-8109-9027
53754 Sankt Augustin, Germany fax +49-2241-144-2352
Personal email: thbaker79@alumni.amherst.edu

</pre>
