---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2005/2005-05-13.meeting-notes-final.html"
---

<pre>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Tue, 24 May 2005 15:52:47 +0200
Reply-To: Thomas Baker &lt;thomas.baker@BI.FHG.DE&gt;
Sender: DCMI Usage Board Back Channel &lt;DC-USAGE-BC@JISCMAIL.AC.UK&gt;
From: Thomas Baker &lt;thomas.baker@BI.FHG.DE&gt;
Subject: Meeting notes (plain text)
To: DC-USAGE-BC@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
----------------------------------------------------------------------

DC Usage Board Meeting
LoC, Washington
19 May 2005

Meeting started at 10.00am

Accessibility

    New proposal for DC Adaptability from Liddy has not been
    shepherded and therefore can't be discussed as a proposal --
    it has not followed process.

    Note: DC Adaptability is an alternative to DC Accessibility.

    UB "recommend further action" in response to the original DC
    Accessibility proposal in Shanghai.

    Need clear response to WG

    * Acknowledge that "accessibility" is a very important area

    * Reality check: definition was not understandable

    * But deeper problem -- beyond tinkering of the definition

    * Proposed solution from WG appears to bundle several
      properties and values together within a single element --
      shoehorning IMS XML bundle of stuff into DC element value

    * Alternative solution possible in the form of an
      "accessibility" application profile OR some kind of
      linkage to an IMS accessibility (XML) description

    * Work on an accessibility application profile may result
      in clarification of the WG's functional requirements
      and may result in future proposals for new terms
      (properties and/or vocabulary terms)

    * Example values in the Adaptability proposal seem to
      replicate some of the existing DC elements -- type,
      format, language, relation

    * Need to acknowledge that we (UB) made a mistake in
      Shanghai.

    Action: Tom, Stuart to draft a response to WG -- 2 pages
    by end of May. 1 week comment period for UB. Then to
    Liddy (first) and WG.

    Note (for DC Architecture): Need a generic mechanism
    in the AM for saying "Here is another description about
    this resource".

DCMI Extension Namespaces and review of application profiles

    Agreed that general shift in focus from individual terms to
    application profiles is a good thing.

    However, several questions/issues:

    * Need to clarify what "approving an application profile"
      means.

    * What does adding a term to an extension namespace mean --
      I.e. what is DCMI saying by doing this?

    * What value is there in short term commitment to maintenance?

    * What is the current DCTERMS namespace for if we move
      to extension namespaces?

    * The bulk of UB work is in considering new terms - what will
      UB do less of once we have extension namespaces?

    * DCMI WGs have a requirement for creating and managing
      vocabularies -- how do extension namespaces help?

    * What do we want to say about application profiles and their
      component terms?

    * What is a "Strategic activity"?

    * Are there legal and social issues with DCMI assigning URIs
      to terms (particularly encoding schemes) that refer to
      things owned by other people?

    Note that "conforming" currently means "conforms to grammatical
    principles" and the UB process (section 4.0) also says that
    conforming terms "do not conflict with or create ambiguity with
    existing terms" and that they are not both "cross domain" and
    "resource discovery" -- we have no current way of saying that
    a term simply "conforms to the AM". "Recommended" currently
    means "conforming" and "cross domain" and "resource discovery".

    Could possibly revise the meanings of our statuses to be:

    * Conforming = conforms with AM

    * Recommended = conforming plus no overlaps with existing terms

    Whether a term is "cross-domain" or not is orthogonal to this.

    Need to define what "conforms to the AM" means -- need a
    decision tree. Action: Andy

    Need to define other statuses (e.g. "Recommended") and what
    they mean -- need decision tree(s). Action: Diane, Stuart

    These statuses and decision trees need to be able to be
    applied to individual elements, element refinements and
    encoding schemes and to application profiles.

    What does a "review" of an application profile consist of?

    * Evaluate all elements, element refinements and encoding
      schemes for conformance with the AM

        o This should result in assigning a status of
          "conforming" or "recommended" to terms that currently
          don't have a status (new meanings - i.e. they all
          conform to the AM).

        o Terms in non-DCMI namespaces should be documented
          according to DCMI requirements and have persistent
          URIs supported by known policies.

        o All terms must have an assigned URI (by DCMI or by
          external organisation).

        o If necessary, assign a URI in a DCMI namespace
          (DCTERMS or a DCMI extension namespace) and place
          documentation on the DCMI site.

    * Review AP-specific comments for clarity and to ensure that
      they do not extend existing term semantics

    * Check that AP documentation conforms to DCMI requirements
      (CEN guidelines or revised version)

    * Review and document evidence of community buy-in to the AP
      (as a whole)

    * Consider whether the AP does was it says it does -- i.e. does
      it meet its documented functional requirements

    * Produce a "review report"

    If the AP meets all these requirements then it is "conforming".

Possible changes to CEN guidelines for AP -- Action: Tom

    * Details about assigning URIs to terms

    * Contextual info about why particular terms were chosen.

Process prior to UB meeting:

    * Assign shepherds (reports for packet by 1 Sept)

        o Overall shepherd: Andrew
        o Evaluation individual terms against AM: Andrew, Andy
        o Check comments: Akira
        o Check documentation: Tom
        o Check community buy-in: Andrew
        o Check functional requirements: Tom

    * There should be an single announcement about the AP and all
      terms within the AP that don not currently have a DCMI status
      on dc-general by the shepherd -- the comment period should be
      one month (announced Mon 25 July)

    * With regard to the AP we're looking for views on fitness
      for purpose, wider community buy-in and commentary on
      semantic overlaps -- primary measure of community buy-in is
      thru the WG.

    Agreed that initial review of new terms and APs is to determine
    conformance to AM or not. Review of AP will also result in a
    "review report" -- but need to determine the level of comment
    in the report

Need longer term roadmap of where APs can go, e.g.

    WG ----&gt; conformance ----&gt; WG -----&gt; recommended.

    Need documentation for minimal proposal of new term -- Action:

    Suggestion that

What namespace do "new" terms go into?

    OPTION 1

        * If elements, element refinements that are not
          in other namespaces are "recommended" and
          "cross-domain" then they go into the DCTerms
          namespace. Otherwise they go into a DCMI extension
          namespace.

        * All vocabulary terms that are not in other namespaces go
          into a DCMI extension namespace.

    OPTION 2

        * All "new" elements, element refinements and encoding
          schemes that are not in other namespaces go into
          DCTERMS namespace.

        * All vocabulary terms that are not in other namespaces go
          into a DCMI extension namespace.

    OPTION 3

        * Everything goes into an extension namespace

    OPTION 4 (as per BoT proposal)

        * If proposal originates from a strategic activity
          it goes into an extension namespace

        * Everything else goes into DCTerms.

What namespace URI should we use?

    Depends on the OPTIONS above.

        If OPTION 1, proposal to use:

            <a href="http://purl.org/dcx/cdwg/">http://purl.org/dcx/cdwg/</a> - an acronym with implied semantics
         OR <a href="http://purl.org/dcx/2005/06/">http://purl.org/dcx/2005/06/</a> - a date stamp
         OR <a href="http://purl.org/dcx/01/">http://purl.org/dcx/01/</a> - something neutral (eg, sequential number)

        If OPTION 2, proposal to use:

            <a href="http://purl.org/dcx/vocab_name/">http://purl.org/dcx/vocab_name/</a>

Summary position of UB on extension namespaces proposal:

    * Agree with move to using APs as primary mechanism for
      proposing new terms. Will develop documentation for WGs to
      encourage and support this.

    * Agree with need to provide home for WG-generated
      vocabularies. Will develop new namespaces and associated
      documentation for vocabularies.

    * It is not clear that there is currently a demonstrable
      need for new namespaces for elements, element refinements
      and encoding schemes, and we see no pressing need to put new
      terms into extension namespaces. Under proposals above the
      "approval" process for new elements, element refinements and
      encoding schemes is unchanged -- therefore can continue using
      existing DCTERMS namespace for them, at least until we see how
      things progress as a result of moving to greater use of APs.

    * Recognise a need to structure documentation about DCMI terms
      to emphasise a core set and to de-emphasise domain-specific
      terms. The UB proposes to address this problem by reviewing
      the statuses we assign to terms and the ones already assigned.

Meeting ended at 17:30pm.

Second day -- meeting started 9.10am

Morning spent reviewing the above

Definitions and labels

    Process for changes to definitions to terms is in the
    namespace policy.

    Add reference to this process to the UB process document --
    Action: Diane.

    Write a proposal document for all the proposed changes
    apart from Format (Subject and Keywords -&gt; Subject) to be
    announced on dc-general -- Action: Andy, Diane (by mid-June)

    Recommend to the Directorate that there is a potential
    problem with the definition of Format and that a small
    WG should be formed to consider options for revision.
    Action: Tom

MARC Relators

    New namespace URI: <a href="http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/">http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/</a>

    Remove Type of term, Date issued and Status from LoC
    human-readable documentation -- Action: Rebecca

    Need to add "See also" link from the RDF to a DCMI page
    that endorses the assertions and says that the terms are
    "conforming" -- Action: Rebecca, Andy

    Create DCMI page (above). This should describe the
    maintenance arrangement for the list -- Action: Tom

    Add human-readable statement to the top of the
    human-readable pages as well to clarify relationship
    between these terms and DCMI (and linking to the page
    above and to the guidelines) -- Action: Rebecca, Tom

    Split off section 1 of the guidelines into some
    announcement text for dc-general -- Action: Diane

    Rest of guidelines to be added as new section to "Using
    Dublin Core" -- Action: Diane

    Tom to make stylistic suggestions to Diane -- Action: Tom

    Agreed to announce relators by July 1. Rebecca to write
    draft announcement text. Tom to liaise with Makx about
    announcement. Action: Tom, Rebecca

dc:language

    Agreed to remove "or 'eng'" from the comment for Language.
    Add this to the proposal document for changes to DC terms
    -- Action: Andy

Type list

    Suggest changing "Examples -" to "Examples include: " and
    "web" to "Web" and "virtual reality" to "virtual reality
    environment" plus a couple of other minor changes from Tom.

    Suggest incorporate (in some form) the comments from Andy.

    Issue a document containing proposed changes on dc-general
    for 14 days at the same time as proposed changes to DCMI
    terms -- Action: Diane, Stuart

Using Dublin Core

    Discussion about how to identify organisations in the context
    of usage of rightsHolder.

        Ask for suggestions for how to do this using library
        authority records based on the solutions adopted in FOAF
        based on OWL "inverse functional properties" -- Action: Tom

        Alternative is to derive identifiers for people and
        organisations based on name authority record identifiers
        (e.g. LCCN), e.g.

            info:lccn:abcde - identifies the authority record

            info:lccn-resource:abcde - identifies the organisation
            described by info:lccn:abcde

        Suggest this approach to DC Libraries???

Madrid meeting

    Check with PeteJ about whether the deadline of 25 July
    is realistic -- Action: Andrew

    Need public comment period for DCSV document changes.
    Docs need to be announced by 25 July -- Action: Andy,
    Andrew

    Proposed agenda item 3 not required since the issue of
    registration of encoding schemes now falls under discussion
    about process for reviewing APs

</pre>
