---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2005/2005-07-19.telecon-report.html"
---

<pre>
Report - Usage Board telecon 2005-07-19

Present
   Tom Baker
   Andy Powell
   Andrew Wilson
   Stuart Sutton

Regrets
   Diane Hillmann
   Akira Miyazawa

1. Madrid agenda topics

-- Review of Collection Description application profile 

   Pete will circulate a draft in mid-August. The profile
   will not be reviewed for assignment of status, so
   no comment period is necessary. The expectation
   is that the profile will be "done" except for
   two or three outstanding issues, as described in Pete's
   posting to DC-USAGE on 12 July (see
   <a href="http://www.tbaker.de/2005-07-12.pete-on-collection-description.txt">http://www.tbaker.de/2005-07-12.pete-on-collection-description.txt</a>).

   By September 1, UB members will prepare small position papers:
        o Overall shepherd: Andrew
        o Evaluation individual terms against AM: Andrew, Andy
        o Check comments: Akira
        o Check documentation: Tom
        o Check community buy-in: Andrew
        o Check functional requirements: Tom

   ACTION: Andy to re-circulate the draft decision tree for
   what "conforms to the AM" means.

   ACTION (ongoing) Tom: changes to CEN guidelines for Profiles
   (assigning URIs, contextual info)

   ACTION (ongoing) Diane, Stuart: Fefine other statuses (e.g. 
   "Recommended") and what they mean, with decision trees.

   ACTION (ongoing): Longer-term roadmap needed of where
   APs can go, e.g. WG ----&gt; conformance ----&gt; WG -----&gt;
   recommended. Need documentation for minimal proposal of
   new term

2. Revision of DCSV documents [Andy and Andrew]

   ACTION: Andy and Andrew to submit draft to Makx by Friday.

3. Non-DCMI encoding schemes

   ACTION (ongoing) Stuart, Diane, Tom, Pete (for RDF):
   Endorsement mechanism for non-DCMI encoding schemes

   ACTION (ongoing) [Tom]: Statement of DCMI approach to
   endorsing vocabulary encoding schemes [Tom]

4. dc:date issues [currently with DCMI Date Working Group]
   -- Encoding scheme for ISO8601
   -- Possible changes to comment or definition re: ranges
   -- Implications for ISO and NISO of changes to dc:date definition or comment
   -- note: John Kunze's RFC in pipeline

5. Encoding scheme types [Andy] - vocabulary vs syntax ES, 
   consequences for documentation, see
   <a href="http://www.tbaker.de/2005-05-16.encoding-scheme-types.html">http://www.tbaker.de/2005-05-16.encoding-scheme-types.html</a> (temporary)

   ACTION [Andy]: Andy to write position paper with Pete

8. Definitions and labels [Andy]
   Wording of definitions in light of DAM.
   Consequences for standards.
   Process for changes to definitions to terms is in the
   namespace policy. 

   ACTION [Diane]: Add reference to this process to UB process document

   ACTION [Andy, Diane] Clean up and expand draft proposal
   document for discussion in Madrid. Plan: submit
   for public comment after UB has first discussed;
   formal approval only in meeting after next. See:
   <a href="http://www.tbaker.de/2005-02-28.dcmes-definitions.txt">http://www.tbaker.de/2005-02-28.dcmes-definitions.txt</a>
   (temporary)

   ACTION (ongoing) [Tom]: Signal to the Directorate that
   there is a potential problem with the definition of Format
   and suggest that a small WG should be formed to consider
   options for revision.

   ACTION [Andy] Add to list of proposed changes: agreed to
   remove "or 'eng'" from the comment for Language.

9. Type list (from Washington)

   Diane, Stuart: Incorporate stylistic suggestions
   (e.g., change "Examples -" to "Examples include: " and
   "web" to "Web" and "virtual reality" to "virtual reality
   environment", plus incorporate comments from Andy. Issue a
   document containing proposed changes on dc-general for 14
   days at the same time as proposed changes to DCMI terms.

   ACTION [Stuart]: Submit to Makx for brief public comment
   more than 14 days before Madrid meeting.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other ongoing actions

    MARC Relators
    See Rebecca's update of 1 July at:
    <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0507&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;O=A&amp;S=&amp;P=50">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0507&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;O=A&amp;S=&amp;P=50</a>
    -- New namespace URI: <a href="http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/">http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/</a>
    -- Rebecca, Andy: Need to add "See also" link from the
       RDF to a DCMI page that endorses the assertions and says
       that the terms are "conforming"
    -- Tom: Create DCMI page (above). This should describe the
       maintenance arrangement for the list
    -- Tom, Rebecca: Add human-readable statement to the top of the
       human-readable pages as well to clarify relationship
       between these terms and DCMI (and linking to the page
       above and to the guidelines)
    -- Diane: Split off section 1 of the guidelines into some
       announcement text for dc-general
    -- Diane: Rest of guidelines to be added as new section to 
       "Using Dublin Core"
    -- Tom: Tom to make stylistic suggestions to Diane
    -- Tom, Rebecca: Announce relators by July 1. Rebecca to
       write draft announcement text. Tom to liaise with
       Makx about announcement.

</pre>
