---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2005/2005-03-08.Telecon-notes.html"
---

<pre>
Meeting Notes

Usage Board telecon on Wednesday, 2005-03-08, 1400 UTC
-- updated as of 2005-03-16

Participants: Akira, Stuart, Andy, Diane, Andrew, Rebecca
Regrets: Traugott

1. Next Telecon

   In the 8 March telecon, we agreed to have three telecons
   before the next f2f meeting of 19-20 May. I will try to 
   schedule the next one for circa 24 March.

2. Ongoing revision of UB Process [Stuart and Diane]

   ACTION [Stuart, Diane] - ongoing: Revise Process before
   May meeting.

   -- Add wording to the UB Process document referring to
      the DCMI Mission Statement, e.g. to section 4.3 onwards.
   -- Add wording to 4.3.1 of UB Process document to indicate
      that the criteria are not 'exclusive'
   -- Revisit 3.2 of UB Process document at some stage
      in light of Scope Statement (see Andrew's action).
   -- Add wording somewhere in UB Process document to
      indicate that the recording of decisions should be
      rich enough that the rationale for decisions is clear
      to others.
   -- Agreed various changes to the UB Process document
      based on the email from Tom in the meeting packet
      (Stuart has detailed record of changes required).
   -- Agreed that the announcement of the start of the
      comment period should come from the shepherd and should
      say that comments can go to either the appropriate WG
      mailing list, the dc-general mailing list or privately to
      the shepherd and should explicitly ask for indications
      of support for the proposal. Need to update the UB
      Process document accordingly.
   -- Proposals for new terms should be moved to the DCMI Web
      site, and given DCMI page headers and a status of
      'Proposed term'. when they are accepted by the UB
      (i.e. before comment period starts).
   -- Add a new status of 'Endorsed' (for LoC statements
      about MARC Relator terms) and document processes related
      to endorsement of such assertions.
   -- Clarify use of the status "Registered" now that UB is no
      longer accepting proposals for Vocabulary Encoding
      Schemes.
   -- Need a process for handling changes to definitions
      such as that contemplated for Date.
   -- Note: Need to consider future possibilities for giving a
      status of 'Conforming' to terms in external namespaces.
   -- Approval Process Overview: The document
      'Procedure for approval of DCMI Metadata Terms and
      Recommendations' is maintained by the Managing Director
      as a high-level summary aimed at a general audience
      -- a one-stop source of the overall procedure (see
      <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/approval/">http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/approval/</a>). This
      document links to the more detailed UB process document
      (<a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/">http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/process/</a>).
      The UB process document should now say that the UB will
      inform Managing Director every time there is a major
      revision of UB process so that the Managing Director can
      keep the Approval document in sync.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

3. Other process-related issues

   -- Scope Statement [Andrew]: what are the boundaries and
      criteria for inclusion of terms in DCMI (i.e. what
      'resource discovery' and 'cross-domain' means in
      practice), to be included in UB Mission and Principles,
      UB Process, or elsewhere.

      ACTION [Andrew]: 2005-03-09: Andrew will circulate a
      draft before the next telecon.

   -- Announcement Template [Tom]: Create a comment period
      announcement email template to be used by shepherds.

      ACTION [Tom] - ongoing: Tom will draft a template list
      posting for announcing a comment period. This should be 
      briefly discussed and approved in one of the telecons
      between March 9 and the May meeting in Washington.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

4. Abstract Model

   -- Encoding Scheme Types [Andy]: For each of the currently
      recommended encoding schemes we need to
      determine if it is a syntax encoding scheme
      or a vocabulary encoding scheme. Andy posted
      a list on Feb 26, temporarily archived at
      <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02-26.Encoding-scheme-types.html">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02-26.Encoding-scheme-types.html</a>.

      ACTION [Tom, Andy] 2005-03-09: Tom will draft a brief
      explanation of the consequences for DCMI documentation
      (e.g., the Terms document and the RDF schemas) of
      specifying the type of encoding scheme. Definitions for
      the two types will be taken from the Abstract Model.
      He will discuss this with Andy and either put it on the
      agenda of a telecon before the May meeting or onto the
      agenda of the May meeting itself.

   -- Wording of Definitions [Andy]: Agreed to consider
      re-wording the definitions of current elements to make
      them more consistent with the abstract model.

      ACTION [Andy, before May meeting]. Andy has sent draft -
      should put on Washington agenda. Should include the results
      of the Date discussion.

      ACTION [Rebecca and everyone]. Consider the impact of
      such changes on standards.

   -- DCSV Revision [Andy, Andrew]: Revise DCSV-related encoding
      schemes (removing XML examples, etc).

      ACTION [Andy and Andrew, by May meeting]. Andy and
      Andrew will clarify division of labor; will target May
      meeting for having revised drafts on table. We will
      put onto May agenda. The process will be: UB submits
      revised documents to Directorate with our recommendation,
      Directorate takes it from there.

   -- Element Refinement document [Pete]: In Shanghai, we
      agreed to recommend to the Directorate that it publish
      Pete's document as a 'recommended resource'. However,
      at the subsequent Advisory Board meeting it was decided
      that this should be circulated for comment to the DC-AB
      list before it was published. As of 2005-03-08, the
      document "Element Refinement in Dublin Core Metadata"
      at <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-elem-refine/">http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-elem-refine/</a>
      was posted for AB review until 28 March for approval
      as a Recommended Resource.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

5. Attributes for describing DCMI Terms ("UB application profile")

   -- Properties for Describing Terms [Tom]: At some point, we
      should formally declare terms such as "Status" (as well
      as the Status types: "recommended", "conforming"...).

      ACTION: Tom to explore possibility of coordinating with
      SKOS community in this regard. Berlin conference in
      April will provide opportunity to speak with ISO11179
      community as well; will report on results in May.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

6. MARC Relator Terms

   -- In Shanghai, Diane agreed to slightly revise those
      definitions that do not specifically refer to the
      resource being described. Diane posted these on
      Oct 21 and they have been temporarily posted at
      <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2004-10-21.Relator-terms-review-diane.txt">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2004-10-21.Relator-terms-review-diane.txt</a>

      ACTION: Rebecca will review these from an LoC point
      of view, as it would involve revising the master list
      from which all sub-sets (including the refinements of
      dc:contributor) are derived. As of 2005-02-25, Rebecca's
      list is fairly stable, but we should finalize it by the
      May meeting.

   -- DCMI needs an RDF-based mechanism for recording UB's
      endorsment of each LoC assertion that MARCRel:xxx refines
      dc:xxx or dcterms:xxx. This action was on Pete, but Tom
      has offered to seek help with this in the RDF community.
      On 2005-02-25, the group agreed that we could finalize
      an announcement of the LoC sub-property assertions
      without having an RDF mechanism in place -- i.e., DCMI
      could simply endorse the assertions verbally until an
      RDF mechanism for doing the same is worked out.

   -- Maintenance Process: We need to document ongoing
      relationship between DCMI and LoC.

      ACTION [Rebecca, Tom] Rebecca will write down the
      mechanism for adding things to the list at LoC. The
      basic idea should be that LC makes an initial decision,
      sends it to UB for possible refinement and agreement.
      Once LoC hears back from UB on the decision, there
      would be a fairly simple mechanism for incorporating
      the new term in the dc:contributor sub-list. There is
      a question as to whether each addition to this list
      would need to be announced to DC-GENERAL.

   -- ACTION [Pete] From Shanghai, the action "Need to supply
      examples for Using Dublin Core" was given to Pete in this
      context -- i.e., to provide some examples of the use
      of the MARC Relator Code properties, couched in terms
      of the Abstract Model. On 2005-03-09, Pete posted
      <a href="http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/marcrel-ex/">http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/marcrel-ex/</a>.
      He has tried to cover various permutations
      (subproperty/non-subproperty, single statement/multiple
      statement). He assumes the URIs for the properties
      are based on <a href="http://www.loc.gov/marc.relators/">http://www.loc.gov/marc.relators/</a> and the
      three character codes, but can update the doc if these
      URIs change before they are finalized.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

7. Element proposal: Accessibility [Stuart]

   -- "Accessibility" Proposal: Agreed to change definition
      to: A description of the qualities of the resource in
      terms of control, display and content that can be used to
      match the needs and preferences of a user. Noted need to
      clarify comment to indicate what is meant by 'control,
      display and content' and to note that recommended best
      practice is to provide a machine-readable statement.

      Background materials - including the proposal - are in
      [1], page 127+. There has been discussion on the list,
      starting at [2]. Stuart summarized this discussion, which
      I have temporarily re-posted at [3].

      ACTION [Stuart] By March 18, agree on a definition
      and comment. Stuart has forwarded to Liddy and re-started
      discussion 

      ACTION [longer-term] We need to clarify the role of the
      proposer as a participant in the Usage Board meeting.
      They can and should serve as a resource for explaining
      the proposal, but it has been suggested that we consider
      asking participants to step out for the discussion.

      [1] <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2004/10/Meeting-packet.pdf">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2004/10/Meeting-packet.pdf</a>
      [2] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;O=A&amp;P=54">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;O=A&amp;P=54</a>
      [3] <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02-25.accessibility-proposal.txt">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02-25.accessibility-proposal.txt</a>
      [4] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=6211">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=6211</a>

-----------------------------------------------------------------

8. Term proposals: Collection Description (Andrew)

   -- Approved: accrualMethod
      -- Change 'method' to 'process' in the definition.
      -- Remove mention of specific scheme from comment.

   -- Approved: accrualPeriodicity
      -- Remove mention of specific scheme from comment.

   -- Approved: accrualPolicy
      -- Remove mention of specific scheme from comment.

      ACTION [Andrew]: Circulate draft next week for discussion
      at next Telecon - circulate Monday. On 2005-03-15,
      Andrew has announced the availability of a draft [1]
      and will post it soon.

      [1] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=7035">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=7035</a>

   -- Unable to approve or reject proposals for 3 DC-CD
      controlled vocabularies. Defer decision, pending clarification
      about the ongoing maintenance of the vocabularies. Suggest
      that WG consider possible options for future maintenance.
      Seek clarification from the Board of Trustees about the role
      of DCMI (and the DC UB) in the maintenance of controlled
      vocabularies.

      ACTION [Diane]: Formulate on one-paragraph position,
      for discussion and approval at the next Telecon and
      presentation to Trustees at retreat. On 2005-03-10,
      Diane posted a draft of this for discussion [1].

      [1] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=4724">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=4724</a>

-----------------------------------------------------------------

9. Element proposal: "Instructional Method" [Akira]

  -- Element was approved as "conforming" with the following
     caveats:

     -- Definition to be changed to: 'A process, used to
        engender knowledge, attitudes and skills, that the
        resource is designed to support'.

     -- Needed to find a way of removing 'this element
        describes' from the start of the comment.
        Stuart did this on Nov 7, reposted temporarily as
        <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2004-11-07.instructionalMethod-comment.txt">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2004-11-07.instructionalMethod-comment.txt</a>.

     -- Decision text needed to document community support.

    ACTION: Tom has posted draft decision text at [1]. Akira
    checked this and added community support documentation [2].
    Tom will compare these two carefully and create a final 
    version for approval in the next telecon.

    [1] <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02.instructionalMethod.html">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02.instructionalMethod.html</a>
    [2] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=4841">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=4841</a>

-----------------------------------------------------------------

10. Encoding Scheme proposal: "NLM" [Rebecca]

   -- Proposal for Encoding Scheme unanimously approved
      (2005-02-25). A few changes were made with respect to
      the text posted by Rebecca: changed label and definition
      and deleted the contact information. A revised decision
      text was temporarily posted at:
      <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-01.NLM.html">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-01.NLM.html</a>

      ACTION [Rebecca]: Approve the final decision text in
      next telecon -- or, more simply, consider the decision
      final when Rebecca double-checks the decision text.
      Vote on that in next telecon.

   -- We expect that this will be the last proposal to
      assign a DCMI URI to an external vocabulary. In the
      medium term, we need to develop a policy, process,
      mechanism and documentation for endorsing non-DCMI
      encoding scheme URIs (same endorsement mechanism as for
      endorsing non-DCMI properties) and develop guidelines
      to help external organisations/people declare URIs
      for non-DCMI vocabulary encoding schemes. Medium-term
      action: Stuart, Diane, Tom, Pete (for RDF mechanism)

   -- In the meantime, we need a public statement of new
      approach for handling vocabulary encoding schemes.

      ACTION: Tom to formulate short statement for discussion
      on UB list and in telecons.

   -- Decided to flag existing encoding scheme documentation
      on the DCMI Web site (and the registration tool) as being
      obsolete. These are:
      -- <a href="http://wip.dublincore.org/schemes/index.html">http://wip.dublincore.org/schemes/index.html</a>
      -- <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/vocabulary-guidelines/">http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/vocabulary-guidelines/</a>

      ACTION: Tom to follow up with Web Team.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

11. Date issues

   -- ISO 8601: In Shanghai, we agreed to register a new
      syntax encoding scheme called 'dcterms:ISO8601Basic'
      and add comment indicating that some value strings that
      conform to ISO8601Basic will not be valid value strings
      for dc:date (e.g. '15.30'). However, in subsequent
      discussions with members of the Date Working Group and
      Advisory Board, and after a new "all-ISO8601" proposal
      was discussed on the UB list, we decided to send this
      issue back to the Date Working Group. As of 2005-02-26,
      the WG workplan on the DCMI Website is out of date
      [1]. A more recent one was posted on 2005-02-01
      [2], in which this item is listed under point 2a.
      The "proposal from the Usage Board" referred to in that
      posting was introduced in [3], prompting among other
      things an observation from Misha Wolf [4].

      [1] <a href="http://dublincore.org/groups/date/workplan_2003-2004.shtml">http://dublincore.org/groups/date/workplan_2003-2004.shtml</a>
      [2] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=53">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=53</a>
      [3] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;P=189">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;P=189</a>
      [3] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;P=1646">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;P=1646</a>

      ACTION: Tom talk to Eric and ask him what is happening.

   -- Definition of dc:date

      -- In Shanghai, we prepared a proposed modification of
         the definition for Date, to read: 'A date (or date and
         time), including a range, of an event in the lifecycle
         of the resource'. In subsequent discussion, however,
         we realized that a change in the Comment would achieve
         the same purpose. This issue was sent back to the
         Date WG for a recommendation. See, for example, [1].
         Date WG now has this as an item on their work plan
         [2].

      [1] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=914">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0411&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=914</a>
      [2] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=53">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0502&amp;L=dc-date&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=53</a>

      ACTION: Tom to talk to Eric.

   -- Explain implications for ISO and NISO of changes to
      dc:date definition

      ACTION: Rebecca. Rebecca does not believe there is
      an impact because it is her understanding that DCMI is
      authorized to be the maintenance agency. She will try
      to find out what we can and cannot do as a maintenance
      agency (and will also look up the date for the next
      review, which would provide us with a deadline for any
      such changes).

-----------------------------------------------------------------

12. Type vocabulary definitions and comments

    -- We need to tidy up editorial inconsistencies and send
       to dc-usage list for signing off.

       ACTION [Stuart]: Stuart before next call. Schedule for
       agenda of next meeting.

       ACTION [Andy]: Andy made some suggestions - will
       "re-send" his comments to the list.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

13. Maintenance of application profiles and controlled vocabularies

   -- We need to ask the Board of Trustees to clarify the
      commitment and mechanism that DCMI has for maintaining
      the application profiles that are developed by DC WGs.
      This is a resource issue. It implies getting into
      territory where we are badly prepared. UB could only
      undertake this if the Trustees were to say it is a
      priority and provide the resources to do it.

      ACTION: Tom discuss above position at next telecon and
      represent it to the Trustees at the retreat on April 3-4.
      Tom to discuss positions. Time is the issue.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

14. Meeting in Washington

   -- UB members should check into availability and cost of
      flights and get back to Tom for the budget estimate (2005-02-26).

   -- Rebecca will reserve a block of rooms at Chapel Hill Suite.

   -- We should bear in mind that new requirements for
      "biometric passports" could impact Akira (Japan), Andrew
      (Australia), Andy (UK), and Traugott (Sweden). See
      <a href="http://www.statewatch.org/news/2004/jan/EUUSAG2.pdf">http://www.statewatch.org/news/2004/jan/EUUSAG2.pdf</a>.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

15. New version of Citation Guidelines

   -- Ann Apps posted a new version of Citation Guidelines [1]
      on 2005-02-18. She sees a dependency on the revised
      'DC-in-XML' guidelines and sets 2005-09-30 as a target
      for moving the text onto the approval track.

      Specifically, she sees a dependency on:
      - namespace and location for dcxml
      - an XML way to encode a value URI
      - an XML way to encode a rich description

      [1] <a href="http://epub.mimas.ac.uk/DC/dc-citation-guidelines/">http://epub.mimas.ac.uk/DC/dc-citation-guidelines/</a>

16. Table in Usage Guide - three categories [Diane]

      Diane asked us to look at the summary pages for Elements [1] and Qualifiers [2]
      in the usage guide [3].

      [1] <a href="http://content.nsdl.org/dcub/4._Elements_rev.html">http://content.nsdl.org/dcub/4._Elements_rev.html</a>
      [2] <a href="http://content.nsdl.org/dcub/5._Qualifiers_rev.html">http://content.nsdl.org/dcub/5._Qualifiers_rev.html</a>
      [3] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=4724">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0503&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=4724</a>

17. Recruitment

    ACTION: next call
</pre>
