<HTML>
<BODY>
<H1>DC Usage Board Meeting Minutes</H1>
<H3>Madrid, 9-10 September 2005</H3>

<H2>Attendance</H2>

Tom Baker (chair)<BR>
Andy Powell (scribe)<BR>
Andrew Wilson<BR>
Akira Miyazawa<BR>
Diane Hillmann<BR>
Stuart Sutton<BR>

<H2>Guests</H2>

Joe Tennis<BR>
Pete Johnston<BR>
Alistair Miles<BR>

<H4>Day 1 -- Friday 9 September</H4>

<H3>Application Profile Review</H3>

<H4>Review of Collection Description application profile</H4>

<P><B>Aim:</B> to better understand how the UB "approves" APs
and what the consequences of that are in terms of "term" and
"AP" maintenance, namespaces, etc.  At this stage we are not
ready to actually approve the DCCDAP because no public comment
period has been undertaken and there are some outstanding
issues with the AP itself.</P>

<P>This may result in changes being made to the CEN AP Guidelines
document (e.g. making assignment of URI to terms mandatory).
May also result in changes to other documents: Term decision
tree, etc.

<P>Medium-term aim is for a suite of documents that describe and
document APs in ways that are useful to people creating them.

<P><B>Editorial note:</B> In AP Summary "Property" should be
"Qualified Name" (for consistency with the full AP document).

<P><B>Issue:</B> Discussion about use of dcmitype:Collection as
a vocabulary encoding scheme.  Issue with the AM -- all
VES are classes but should all classes be treated as VESs?
Could consider adding notion of "range" to the AM, but would
need something like "applicationProfileRange" for use in APs.
Work of the DC/RDF Taskforce is beginning to think about
assigning domains and ranges to DC properties, so likely
to have to add notion of "domain" and "range" to the AM at
some point.  Need to think about what impact this has on the
model for APs.

<P><B>Issue:</B> AP creators are not necessarily sophisticated
enough to deal with RDFS/OWL and the concepts in the AM.
Need human-readable documentation (e.g. summary tables along
the lines used in the draft DCCDAP) that forces AP developers
down the right road without confusing them.

<P><B>Issue:</B> Need to develop model of APs, based on the work done
for the DCCDAP, including assigning URIs to all the concepts
used in the model ("obligation", "mandatory", "element",
"element refinement", etc.).

<P><B>Issue:</B> what is "defined by" for?

<P><B>Issue:</B> what does the UB want to say about APs --
e.g. what statuses are we intending to assign?

<P><B>Issue:</B> what are APs for?  Documenting current
practice?  Declaring future practice?  Should an AP be able
to document usage that doesn't conform to the AM?

<P>We agreed the following statements:

<UL>
<LI>1. The AM supports semantic interoperability between software systems.

<LI>2. A DCAP is used to declare a particular application of the AM.

<LI>3. The value of developing a DCAP is to encourage
   consistency in how a set of terms is deployed within and
   across communities.

<LI>4. Many existing metadata implementations are not based on the
   AM and may be described using forms of "application profiles"
   other than DCAPs.

<LI>5. Instance metadata in such implementations may be mapped
   to new AM-compliant applications (which are declared using
   a DCAP).
</UL>

<P><B>Issue:</B> there is a potential problem with the use of both
an element and one or more of its refinements in a DCAP
(e.g. the use of both relation and references in the DCCDAP)
because inferences made on the use of the refinement may not be
compatible with the DCAP defined usage of the element.  Suggest
considering use of new refinements (e.g. "relatedCollection")
to get round this problem.  This issue needs to be covered
in future guidance for creating new APs.

<P><B>Action:</B> Tom to revise the CEN Guidelines in line with the
documentary approach used in the draft DCCDAP.

<H4>Decision tree</H4>

<P><B>Agreed:</B> in AP drafts, example.org will be used for
terms that do not yet have a real URI.

<P>New properties and encoding schemes that arise from DCMI
"strategic" activities and that conform to the AM but do not
yet have a URI will be added to the DCTERMS namespace.

<P>So new terms in draft APs either have real URIs already
assigned OR they have example.org URIs, which is an indication
that the term needs to be assigned a URI in the DCTERMS
namespace.

<P><B>Action:</B> AndyP to review the details in the decision tree
about how terms should be declared.

<P><B>Agreed:</B> Draft APs that contain new terms must be accompanied
by appropriate documentation for the new term.

<P><B>Issue:</B> What is "appropriate documentation" in the context of
new terms in draft APs?

<P><B>Agreed:</B> Human-readable and/or machine-readable statements about
the type of all terms used in APs (e.g. "This is an Element as
defined in the DCAM") should be made available at the term URI.

<P><B>Agreed:</B> When an activity is identified as being strategic,
DCMI needs to ensure ongoing UB engagement ASAP.

<P><B>Action:</B> Need to revise the criteria for evaluating new terms
in the process document - Stuart, Diane.

<P><B>Issue:</B> Are APs intended to be used to validate instance
metadata?  I.e. is some instance metadata that includes
additional terms non-conformant with an AP?  This should be
discussed in the CEN Guidelines.

<H4>Editorial changes to the DCMI Type Vocabulary</H4>

<P><B>Action:</B> change comment for Software to provide list of examples
"C source file, MS-Windows .exe executable, Perl script, etc."

<P><B>Action:</B> Leave comment for Sound unchanged.

<P><B>Action:</B> Change "For example --" to "Examples include:" throughout.

<P><B>Action:</B> Terms to be arranged alphabetically.

<P><B>Action:</B> All references to other terms in DCMIType should just
use the term label without quotes (e.g. Moving Image).

<P>All actions on Stuart and Diane.

<H4>Changes to DCMES property definitions</H4>

<P><B>Note:</B> Need to add proposed change to dcterms:URI to
change seeAlso link to new URI spec.  

<P><B>Agreed:</B> Use "The spatial or temporal topic of
the resource, or the jurisdiction under which the resource
is relevant" as definition of Coverage.  Change comment to
something like "Spatial topic may be a named place...".

<P><B>Agreed:</B> Use "The medium, Internet Media Type or extent of
the resource" as definition of Format.  Need to revise the
comment to explain these three parts.  Change comment to
include "Format may be used to select the software, hardware,
or other equipment needed to display or operate the resource".

<P><B>Note:</B> Need to change final sentence of Type comment in line
with Format definition.

<P></B>Agreed:</B> Change definition of Creator to "An entity primarily
responsible for making the resource" and change definition of
Contributor to "An entity responsible for making contributions
to the resource".

<P><B>Action:</B> Remove use of "Resource" prefix from Type and
Identifier labels.

<P><B>Action:</B> Andy to make changes above.

<P><B>Action:</B> Diane to write up short document giving the rational
for these changes.

<P>Actions to be undertaken prior to next teleconference.

<H4>Domains and ranges</H4>

Agreed that it is a good idea to move the DC RDF Taskforce
work on assigning domains and ranges forward in some way.

<P>Need to define set of DC classes (an ontology) for use as
domains and ranges, but map to equivalent existing classes
in other namespaces as appropriate.

<P>Need to think about how to iterate the development of our
ontology -- and how to engage with community.  Possibly declare
in parallel with other DCMI RDFS declarations for the time
being.

<P>This activity fits better within UB remit than within DC
Architecture.

<P><B>Action:</B> DC RDF taskforce to continue developing draft
document of domains and ranges -- to be brought back to UB
when reasonable draft is ready for consideration of how to
handover activity to the UB.

<P>End of day 1

<H4>Day 2 -- Saturday 10 September</H4>

<H4>Dc:date</H4>

<P><B>Agreed:</B> accept the change to the comment for dc:date as
recommended by the WG.

<P><B>Action:</B> Andy to add change to list of other changes to DCMES terms.

<H4>DCSV</H4>

<P>Add "Editorial Changes" section to the end of each of these
documents, noting why these changes have happened.

<P>Remove un-used references.

<P>Tidy up hyphenated words (as per Tom's comments).

<P><B>Issue:</B> should these documents still have "Recommended status"?

<P>Change titles (and other text) to use "DCMI DCSV: A syntax
for representing simple structured data in a text string".

<P>Agreed with Tom's points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.

<P><B>Note:</B> need to add definition of "structured value string" to terminology section.

<P><B>Issue:</B> Note this also requires change to the abstract model terminology.

<P>Spelling of "hierarchical".

<P>Make changes as per Ann's comments.

<P>Make changes as per Pete's comments.

<P><B>Action:</B> Andy and Andrew to make changes above and send to list.

<P><B>Agreed:</B> Need to change status of these documents to "Rescinded
Recommendation" with note about historical context and
justification.

<P><B>Agreed:</B> change status of Period, Point and Box to
"Conforming". VOTE: 6 in favor, none against, none abstain.

<P><B>Action:</B> Tom to write up decision text (for the change to the
terms above) and approve on the list.

<P><B>Agreed:</B> Fix the redirects to the current Recommendations on
the Web site.  Put current proposed changes as date-stamped
"Proposed Recommendations".  Put new proposed changes as
date-stamped "Proposed Rescinded Recommendations" and submit
to Directorate for comment period.

<P><B>Action:</B> Tom to clarify process for doing this with Directorate.

<P><B>Issue:</B> Frequency of updates to the DCMI Web site is sometimes
problematic.

<P><B>Action:</B> Tom to raise this with the Directorate.

<H4>MARC Relator terms</H4>

<P><B>Issue:</B> what should be served at term URIs and namespace URIs.

<P><B>Agreed:</B> Emerging best practice is to use content negotiation
to serve both text/html and application/rdf+xml.  Should use an
HTTP 303 reposnse to redirect from term URI to representation.
Do this at both the term URIs and the namespace URI.

<P><B>Action:</B> Andy to write up requirement for what needs to happen
on the DCMI Web server to achieve this for current DCMI
terms/namespaces and send to list for forwarding to Web team.

<P><B>Action:</B> Tom to liaise with Rebecca about what DCMI
is doing.  

<P>For the text/html representation of a DCMI term, the
HTTP 303 redirect should go to the anchor for that term in
http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/.

<P>For the application/rdf+xml representation of a DCMI
term, serve the RDFS for the whole namespace initially --
but could have a discussion on DC Architecture about whether
it is better to only serve RDFS for the individual terms.

<P><B>Action:</B> Tom/Diane to undertake other ongoing actions
from pages 8 and 9 of the packet.

<P><B>Action:</B> Pete to update "Element refinement in DC
Metadata" Recommended Resource in order to use correct MARC
relator URI. (No comment period required).

<P><B>Issue:</B> what assertions do we want to make about
MARC Relator Terms?
<UL>

<LI>1 - Endorse the LoC assertions about individual properties
being sub-properties of dc:contributor?

<LI>2 - Endorse the use of all MARC Relator Terms in DC metadata descriptions?

<LI>Both?

<LI>Also need to decide if either of the endorsements above
are only about specific date-stamped assertions or are more
open-ended (i.e. true whatever LoC does in the future).
</UL>

<P><B>Action:</B> Tom to do both on open-ended basis as
human-readable document.

<P><B>Agreed:</B> Use a "DCMI list of trusted RDFS data
sources" as mechanism for indicating endorsement of whole
vocabularies?  It may be that in the future we choose to
drive the DCMI registry from this list and that therefore
the appearance of something in the DCMI registry implies
endorsement by DCMI.

<P><B>Agreed:</B> The initial list is:
<UL>
<LI>DCMES namespace URI
<LI>DCTERMS namespace URI
<LI>DCMIType namespace URI
<LI>MARC Relators namespace URI (note: RDF not currently served here)
</UL>

<P><B>Agreed:</B> Addition of new trusted RDFS data sources is driven by the development of APs in WGs.

<H4>Process Document</H4>

<P>Part I

<P>Put current 3.2 (Conforming) to 3.1.  Move 3.1 (Recommended)
to 3.2 and change meaning in line with decisions in Washington
(i.e. conforming and no overlap).

<P><B>Issue:</B> what statuses are needed in the process document?

<P>Definition of Endorsed needs some work -- it is about
"relationship" assertions between terms, not about the terms
themselves.

<P>Part II

<P>Break out parts about evaluating individual terms into separate citable document.

<P>Break out vocabulary of statuses into separate citable document.

<P>Break out parts about UB makeup, processes (I) and changes
to processes (III) into separate citable document.

<P>Consider move to "step-by-step" approach to documenting
process (as per document below) -- at least at summary level.

<P><B>Note:</B> "Procedure for approval of
DCMI Metadata Terms and Recommendations" at
http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/approval/ will need to
be updated to focus on APs rather than individual terms.

<P><B>Action:</B> Diane and Stuart to move process document forward.

<P>Guidelines for some new elements Agreed to proposals with
a couple of minor editorial changes.

<H4>Accessibility</H4>

Andy to attend WG meeting during conference.

<H4>Back burner</H4>

<P><B>Vocabulary vs. Syntax Encoding Schemes</B>

<P>Move action on Pete and Andy to write position paper about
Vocabulary and Syntax encoding schemes to DC RDF Taskforce.

<P><B>Endorsement of external encoding schemes</B>

<P>To be conformant with the DCAM
<UL>
<LI>Term must be declared in right way (using RDF).
<LI>Term must be assigned URI.
<LI>URI must resolve to the RDF declaration (via 303 redirect).
</UL>

<P><B>Action:</B> Andy to add these criteria to the "decision tree".

<P><B>Action:</B> Andy/Tom to undertake process to assign
status to decision tree document.

<H4>Next meeting</H4>


</BODY>
</HTML>
