
  DC Usage Board Meeting Minutes


      Madrid, 9-10 September 2005


    Attendance

Tom Baker (chair)
Andy Powell (scribe)
Andrew Wilson
Akira Miyazawa
Diane Hillmann
Stuart Sutton


    Guests

Joe Tennis
Pete Johnston
Alistair Miles


        Day 1 -- Friday 9 September


      Application Profile Review


        Review of Collection Description application profile

*Aim:* to better understand how the UB "approves" APs and what the
consequences of that are in terms of "term" and "AP" maintenance,
namespaces, etc. At this stage we are not ready to actually approve the
DCCDAP because no public comment period has been undertaken and there
are some outstanding issues with the AP itself.

This may result in changes being made to the CEN AP Guidelines document
(e.g. making assignment of URI to terms mandatory). May also result in
changes to other documents: Term decision tree, etc.

Medium-term aim is for a suite of documents that describe and document
APs in ways that are useful to people creating them.

*Editorial note:* In AP Summary "Property" should be "Qualified Name"
(for consistency with the full AP document).

*Issue:* Discussion about use of dcmitype:Collection as a vocabulary
encoding scheme. Issue with the AM -- all VES are classes but should all
classes be treated as VESs? Could consider adding notion of "range" to
the AM, but would need something like "applicationProfileRange" for use
in APs. Work of the DC/RDF Taskforce is beginning to think about
assigning domains and ranges to DC properties, so likely to have to add
notion of "domain" and "range" to the AM at some point. Need to think
about what impact this has on the model for APs.

*Issue:* AP creators are not necessarily sophisticated enough to deal
with RDFS/OWL and the concepts in the AM. Need human-readable
documentation (e.g. summary tables along the lines used in the draft
DCCDAP) that forces AP developers down the right road without confusing
them.

*Issue:* Need to develop model of APs, based on the work done for the
DCCDAP, including assigning URIs to all the concepts used in the model
("obligation", "mandatory", "element", "element refinement", etc.).

*Issue:* what is "defined by" for?

*Issue:* what does the UB want to say about APs -- e.g. what statuses
are we intending to assign?

*Issue:* what are APs for? Documenting current practice? Declaring
future practice? Should an AP be able to document usage that doesn't
conform to the AM?

We agreed the following statements:

    * 1. The AM supports semantic interoperability between software
      systems.
    * 2. A DCAP is used to declare a particular application of the AM.
    * 3. The value of developing a DCAP is to encourage consistency in
      how a set of terms is deployed within and across communities.
    * 4. Many existing metadata implementations are not based on the AM
      and may be described using forms of "application profiles" other
      than DCAPs.
    * 5. Instance metadata in such implementations may be mapped to new
      AM-compliant applications (which are declared using a DCAP). 

*Issue:* there is a potential problem with the use of both an element
and one or more of its refinements in a DCAP (e.g. the use of both
relation and references in the DCCDAP) because inferences made on the
use of the refinement may not be compatible with the DCAP defined usage
of the element. Suggest considering use of new refinements (e.g.
"relatedCollection") to get round this problem. This issue needs to be
covered in future guidance for creating new APs.

*Action:* Tom to revise the CEN Guidelines in line with the documentary
approach used in the draft DCCDAP.


        Decision tree

*Agreed:* in AP drafts, example.org will be used for terms that do not
yet have a real URI.

New properties and encoding schemes that arise from DCMI "strategic"
activities and that conform to the AM but do not yet have a URI will be
added to the DCTERMS namespace.

So new terms in draft APs either have real URIs already assigned OR they
have example.org URIs, which is an indication that the term needs to be
assigned a URI in the DCTERMS namespace.

*Action:* AndyP to review the details in the decision tree about how
terms should be declared.

*Agreed:* Draft APs that contain new terms must be accompanied by
appropriate documentation for the new term.

*Issue:* What is "appropriate documentation" in the context of new terms
in draft APs?

*Agreed:* Human-readable and/or machine-readable statements about the
type of all terms used in APs (e.g. "This is an Element as defined in
the DCAM") should be made available at the term URI.

*Agreed:* When an activity is identified as being strategic, DCMI needs
to ensure ongoing UB engagement ASAP.

*Action:* Need to revise the criteria for evaluating new terms in the
process document - Stuart, Diane.

*Issue:* Are APs intended to be used to validate instance metadata? I.e.
is some instance metadata that includes additional terms non-conformant
with an AP? This should be discussed in the CEN Guidelines.


        Editorial changes to the DCMI Type Vocabulary

*Action:* change comment for Software to provide list of examples "C
source file, MS-Windows .exe executable, Perl script, etc."

*Action:* Leave comment for Sound unchanged.

*Action:* Change "For example --" to "Examples include:" throughout.

*Action:* Terms to be arranged alphabetically.

*Action:* All references to other terms in DCMIType should just use the
term label without quotes (e.g. Moving Image).

All actions on Stuart and Diane.


        Changes to DCMES property definitions

*Note:* Need to add proposed change to dcterms:URI to change seeAlso
link to new URI spec.

*Agreed:* Use "The spatial or temporal topic of the resource, or the
jurisdiction under which the resource is relevant" as definition of
Coverage. Change comment to something like "Spatial topic may be a named
place...".

*Agreed:* Use "The medium, Internet Media Type or extent of the
resource" as definition of Format. Need to revise the comment to explain
these three parts. Change comment to include "Format may be used to
select the software, hardware, or other equipment needed to display or
operate the resource".

*Note:* Need to change final sentence of Type comment in line with
Format definition.

Agreed: Change definition of Creator to "An entity primarily responsible
for making the resource" and change definition of Contributor to "An
entity responsible for making contributions to the resource".

*Action:* Remove use of "Resource" prefix from Type and Identifier labels.

*Action:* Andy to make changes above.

*Action:* Diane to write up short document giving the rational for these
changes.

Actions to be undertaken prior to next teleconference.


        Domains and ranges

Agreed that it is a good idea to move the DC RDF Taskforce work on
assigning domains and ranges forward in some way.

Need to define set of DC classes (an ontology) for use as domains and
ranges, but map to equivalent existing classes in other namespaces as
appropriate.

Need to think about how to iterate the development of our ontology --
and how to engage with community. Possibly declare in parallel with
other DCMI RDFS declarations for the time being.

This activity fits better within UB remit than within DC Architecture.

*Action:* DC RDF taskforce to continue developing draft document of
domains and ranges -- to be brought back to UB when reasonable draft is
ready for consideration of how to handover activity to the UB.

End of day 1


        Day 2 -- Saturday 10 September


        Dc:date

*Agreed:* accept the change to the comment for dc:date as recommended by
the WG.

*Action:* Andy to add change to list of other changes to DCMES terms.


        DCSV

Add "Editorial Changes" section to the end of each of these documents,
noting why these changes have happened.

Remove un-used references.

Tidy up hyphenated words (as per Tom's comments).

*Issue:* should these documents still have "Recommended status"?

Change titles (and other text) to use "DCMI DCSV: A syntax for
representing simple structured data in a text string".

Agreed with Tom's points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.

*Note:* need to add definition of "structured value string" to
terminology section.

*Issue:* Note this also requires change to the abstract model terminology.

Spelling of "hierarchical".

Make changes as per Ann's comments.

Make changes as per Pete's comments.

*Action:* Andy and Andrew to make changes above and send to list.

*Agreed:* Need to change status of these documents to "Rescinded
Recommendation" with note about historical context and justification.

*Agreed:* change status of Period, Point and Box to "Conforming". VOTE:
6 in favor, none against, none abstain.

*Action:* Tom to write up decision text (for the change to the terms
above) and approve on the list.

*Agreed:* Fix the redirects to the current Recommendations on the Web
site. Put current proposed changes as date-stamped "Proposed
Recommendations". Put new proposed changes as date-stamped "Proposed
Rescinded Recommendations" and submit to Directorate for comment period.

*Action:* Tom to clarify process for doing this with Directorate.

*Issue:* Frequency of updates to the DCMI Web site is sometimes
problematic.

*Action:* Tom to raise this with the Directorate.


        MARC Relator terms

*Issue:* what should be served at term URIs and namespace URIs.

*Agreed:* Emerging best practice is to use content negotiation to serve
both text/html and application/rdf+xml. Should use an HTTP 303 reposnse
to redirect from term URI to representation. Do this at both the term
URIs and the namespace URI.

*Action:* Andy to write up requirement for what needs to happen on the
DCMI Web server to achieve this for current DCMI terms/namespaces and
send to list for forwarding to Web team.

*Action:* Tom to liaise with Rebecca about what DCMI is doing.

For the text/html representation of a DCMI term, the HTTP 303 redirect
should go to the anchor for that term in
http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/.

For the application/rdf+xml representation of a DCMI term, serve the
RDFS for the whole namespace initially -- but could have a discussion on
DC Architecture about whether it is better to only serve RDFS for the
individual terms.

*Action:* Tom/Diane to undertake other ongoing actions from pages 8 and
9 of the packet.

*Action:* Pete to update "Element refinement in DC Metadata" Recommended
Resource in order to use correct MARC relator URI. (No comment period
required).

*Issue:* what assertions do we want to make about MARC Relator Terms?

    * 1 - Endorse the LoC assertions about individual properties being
      sub-properties of dc:contributor?
    * 2 - Endorse the use of all MARC Relator Terms in DC metadata
      descriptions?
    * Both?
    * Also need to decide if either of the endorsements above are only
      about specific date-stamped assertions or are more open-ended
      (i.e. true whatever LoC does in the future). 

*Action:* Tom to do both on open-ended basis as human-readable document.

*Agreed:* Use a "DCMI list of trusted RDFS data sources" as mechanism
for indicating endorsement of whole vocabularies? It may be that in the
future we choose to drive the DCMI registry from this list and that
therefore the appearance of something in the DCMI registry implies
endorsement by DCMI.

*Agreed:* The initial list is:

    * DCMES namespace URI
    * DCTERMS namespace URI
    * DCMIType namespace URI
    * MARC Relators namespace URI (note: RDF not currently served here) 

*Agreed:* Addition of new trusted RDFS data sources is driven by the
development of APs in WGs.


        Process Document

Part I

Put current 3.2 (Conforming) to 3.1. Move 3.1 (Recommended) to 3.2 and
change meaning in line with decisions in Washington (i.e. conforming and
no overlap).

*Issue:* what statuses are needed in the process document?

Definition of Endorsed needs some work -- it is about "relationship"
assertions between terms, not about the terms themselves.

Part II

Break out parts about evaluating individual terms into separate citable
document.

Break out vocabulary of statuses into separate citable document.

Break out parts about UB makeup, processes (I) and changes to processes
(III) into separate citable document.

Consider move to "step-by-step" approach to documenting process (as per
document below) -- at least at summary level.

*Note:* "Procedure for approval of DCMI Metadata Terms and
Recommendations" at http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/approval/ will
need to be updated to focus on APs rather than individual terms.

*Action:* Diane and Stuart to move process document forward.

Guidelines for some new elements Agreed to proposals with a couple of
minor editorial changes.


        Accessibility

Andy to attend WG meeting during conference.


        Back burner

*Vocabulary vs. Syntax Encoding Schemes*

Move action on Pete and Andy to write position paper about Vocabulary
and Syntax encoding schemes to DC RDF Taskforce.

*Endorsement of external encoding schemes*

To be conformant with the DCAM

    * Term must be declared in right way (using RDF).
    * Term must be assigned URI.
    * URI must resolve to the RDF declaration (via 303 redirect). 

*Action:* Andy to add these criteria to the "decision tree".

*Action:* Andy/Tom to undertake process to assign status to decision
tree document.


        Next meeting

