<PRE>
UB meeting, Washington DC, first draft

Version: 2005-05-05, 12:00 UTC

Deadline for materials in meeting packet: Friday, May 13

1. DCMI Extension Namespaces (Tom)
   Discuss the DCMI Extension Namespaces proposal - implications
   for process and for agenda items for the September meeting.
   Related issues: maintenance of APs and controlled vocabularies.
   This is also related to an old action on Andrew for a 
   scope statement: boundaries and criteria for inclusion in dcterms:.

2. Collection Description (Andrew)
   Finalize term proposals:
   <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02.Collection-terms.shtml">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/2005-02.Collection-terms.shtml</a>
   Consider how we might review the CD Application Profile in 
   September -- what the review might involve and what outcomes
   might be achieved.

3. Review of Library Application Profile?
   Tom contact Robina?

4. Accessibility (Tom)
   Liddy has agreed to supply examples and a wordings by May 12 for
   inclusion in the packet.
   Tom will include a summary of the debate in the packet.

5. MARC relator terms (Rebecca)
   ACTION: Diane and Rebecca to fold in Pete's marcrel doc
   into guidelines (a doc written during discussion of why
   it is important that some, not other, terms are seen as
   refinements) - he has separated out value URI and value
   string - makes things clearer.  Using DC document could 
   benefit from separating these things out.

6. Revision of DCSV documents (Andy and Andrew - by Washington?)

7. Abstract model and related documents
   Pete's element refinement document (Andy?)
   Citation Guidelines under review?
   Pete's document on DC Elements as Properties
   DCMI Mixing and Matching FAQ?

8. Encoding scheme types 
   Vocabulary ES vs. syntax ES (Andy) - Andy to summarize before May 13?
   Consequences for documentation (Tom)

9. DCMES Definitions
   Wording of definitions in light of DAM (Andy - Washington)
   Impact of wording of definitions on standards (Rebecca)

10. Non-DCMI encoding schemes
    Endorsement mechanism for non-DCMI encoding schemes (Stuart, Diane, Tom, Pete for RDF)
    Statement of DCMI approach to endorsing vocabulary encoding schemes (Tom)

11. Date issues
    Prodding Date WG on ISO8601 issue (Tom) 
    Prodding Date WG on changes to comment or definition re: ranges (Tom)
    -- goal: to have update from Eric Childress in meeting packet
    -- Consider implications for ISO and NISO of changes to dc:date definition (Rebecca)

12. Type vocabulary
    Type vocabulary definitions/comments: tidy up inconsistencies for approval (Stuart)
    -- Tom will include summary of latest discussion on list

13. dc:language comment
    Comment for dc:language w.r.t. RFC 3066 2- or 3-letter codes (Rebecca?)

Ongoing process and maintenance issues

1. Process document maintenance (Stuart and Diane)
   -- Clarify role of proposers as participants in UB meetings?

2. Documentation and maintenance (Tom)
   Flagging old encoding scheme Web forms pages as obsolete (Tom)
   Attributes for describing DCMI terms ("status", etc) (Tom)
   Template posting for announcing comment period (Tom)

3. Using Dublin Core and AskDCMI?

4. UB recruitment

5. Misc
   -- Title of RDF schema
   -- Label for Alternative Title

</PRE>
