<PRE>
From baker@sub.uni-goettingen.de Tue Jul 19 12:08:19 2005
Date: Tue, 19 Jul 2005 12:08:19 +0200
From: Thomas Baker &lt;baker@sub.uni-goettingen.de&gt;
To: DCMI Usage Board back-channel &lt;dc-usage-bc@jiscmail.ac.uk&gt;
Subject: Agenda for today's telecon 1500 UK
Message-ID: &lt;20050719100819.GA2528@baker&gt;
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Disposition: inline
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
User-Agent: Mutt/1.4.2.1i
Status: RO
Content-Length: 7195
Lines: 190

Calling into the conference:
    1) Dial: local country number (<a href="http://www.sprintbiz.com/intlaudio">http://www.sprintbiz.com/intlaudio</a>)
       -- Germany 0800-181-2311
       -- UK 0800-032-0634
       -- US - skip this step
    2) You hear: "Welcome... Please enter your 10-digit..."
       Type: 888-448-7101#
    3) You hear: "Please enter..."
       Type:     764-6081#

Dear all,

The fact that the Washington meeting materials were not posted
publicly (and archived at dublincore.org) and are not citable
on the Web -- and that I do not yet have a new Webspace
set up in Goettingen -- cramp my style and have thrown me
a bit off balance.  Rather than send things as attachments
I have temporarily posted a few files on a private Web page
(cited below).

I'd like to keep the meeting to 30 minutes.  We need to do
two things:

-- Decide what goes on the agenda in September
-- Review outstanding actions

Have I missed anything?

Tom

---

Topic:             September meeting at DC2005 in Madrid
Identifier:        <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/agenda/topic-madrid/">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/agenda/topic-madrid/</a>
See also:          <a href="http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/agenda/">http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/agenda/</a>
Modified:          2005-07-19

DC2005 in Madrid
-- http: //dc2005.uc3m.es/
   <a href="http://congrega.fund.uc3m.es/dc2005test/program/program.asp">http://congrega.fund.uc3m.es/dc2005test/program/program.asp</a>
   Sat Sep 10: Usage Board
   Sun Sep 11: Usage Board
   Mon Sep 12: tutorials, papers, working groups
   Tue Sep 13: tutorials, papers, working groups
   Wed Sep 14: tutorials, papers, working groups
   Thu Sep 15: tutorials, papers, working groups
   Fri Sep 16: Advisory Board

Attendance
   Tom Baker
   Andy Powell
   Andrew Wilson
   Akira Miyazawa
   Diane Hillmann
   Stuart Sutton

Guests
   Joe Tennis
   Alistair Miles

Potential agenda topics

1. Review of Collection Description application profile 

   In Washington, we decided to review the DC-COLLECTIONS profile
   in September.  We had decided to put it up for a one-month comment
   period on DC-GENERAL in order to be able to give it formal status,
   but the profile was not done in time to do that.

   Rather, I have arranged with Pete that he will
   circulate the profile in mid-August and we will
   do a "partial review".  Some context from Pete as
   of July 12 on the parts that are not yet done:
   <a href="http://www.tbaker.de/2005-07-12.pete-on-collection-description.txt">http://www.tbaker.de/2005-07-12.pete-on-collection-description.txt</a>.

   We agreed in Washington that the review of new terms and
   APs should be to determine conformance to the AM or not.
   Review of AP will also result in a "review report" --
   but need to determine the level of comment in that report.

   The parts of the Washington notes that cover
   the review of profiles can be found in:
   <a href="http://www.tbaker.de/2005-07-19.profile-review.txt">http://www.tbaker.de/2005-07-19.profile-review.txt</a>.
   According to those notes:

   Review of application profile (reports due 1 September)
        o Overall shepherd: Andrew
        o Evaluation individual terms against AM: Andrew, Andy
        o Check comments: Akira
        o Check documentation: Tom
        o Check community buy-in: Andrew
        o Check functional requirements: Tom

   Other relevant actions from Washington meeting:
   -- Andy, Andrew: A decision tree for what "conforms to the AM" means
   -- Tom: changes to CEN guidelines for Profiles (assigning URIs, contextual info)
   -- Diane, Stuart: Need to define other statuses (e.g. "Recommended")
      and what they mean -- decision trees.
   -- Noted that longer term roadmap needed of where APs can go, e.g.
      WG ----&gt; conformance ----&gt; WG -----&gt; recommended.
      Need documentation for minimal proposal of new term 

2. Revision of DCSV documents [Andy and Andrew]

   Note: public comment period would be necessary...

3. Non-DCMI encoding schemes
   Endorsement mechanism for non-DCMI encoding schemes [Stuart, Diane, Tom, Pete for RDF]
   Statement of DCMI approach to endorsing vocabulary encoding schemes [Tom]

4. dc:date issues [currently with DCMI Date Working Group]
   -- Encoding scheme for ISO8601
   -- Possible changes to comment or definition re: ranges
   -- Implications for ISO and NISO of changes to dc:date definition or comment
   -- Eric Childress to report
   -- note: John Kunze's RFC in pipeline

6. Encoding scheme types [Andy] - vocabulary vs syntax ES, consequences for documentation
   <a href="http://www.tbaker.de/2005-05-16.encoding-scheme-types.html">http://www.tbaker.de/2005-05-16.encoding-scheme-types.html</a>

7. DCMES Definitions [Andy]
   <a href="http://www.tbaker.de/2005-02-28.dcmes-definitions.txt">http://www.tbaker.de/2005-02-28.dcmes-definitions.txt</a>
   Wording of definitions in light of DAM.
   Consequences for standards.

8. Definitions and labels (from Washington)
   Process for changes to definitions to terms is in the
   namespace policy.

   Actions:
   -- Diane: Add reference to this process to the UB process document --
   -- Andy, Diane (by mid-June) proposal document for all
      proposed changes apart from Format (Subject and Keywords -&gt;
      Subject) to be announced on dc-general
   -- Tom: Recommend to the Directorate that there is a potential
      problem with the definition of Format and that a small
      WG should be formed to consider options for revision.
   -- Andy: Add to list of proposed changes: agreed to remove "or 'eng'"
      from the comment for Language

9. Type list (from Washington)

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other outstanding actions

    Completed
    -- Accessibility -- Tom, Stuart draft a response to WG
    -- Rebecca: Remove Type of term, Date issued and Status
       from LoC human-readable documentation

    MARC Relators
    See Rebecca's update of 1 July at:
    <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0507&L=dc-usage&T=0&O=A&S=&P=50">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0507&L=dc-usage&T=0&O=A&S=&P=50</a>
    -- New namespace URI: <a href="http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/">http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/</a>
    -- Rebecca, Andy: Need to add "See also" link from the
       RDF to a DCMI page that endorses the assertions and says
       that the terms are "conforming"
    -- Tom: Create DCMI page (above).  This should describe the
       maintenance arrangement for the list -- Action: Tom
    -- Tom, Rebecca: Add human-readable statement to the top of the
       human-readable pages as well to clarify relationship
       between these terms and DCMI (and linking to the page
       above and to the guidelines)
    -- Diane: Split off section 1 of the guidelines into some
       announcement text for dc-general
    -- Diane: Rest of guidelines to be added as new section to 
       "Using Dublin Core"
    -- Tom: Tom to make stylistic suggestions to Diane
    -- Tom, Rebecca: Announce relators by July 1.  Rebecca to
       write draft announcement text.  Tom to liaise with
       Makx about announcement.

    Type list

    -- Diane, Stuart: Incorporate stylistic suggestions (e.g., 
       change "Examples -" to "Examples include: " and
       "web" to "Web" and "virtual reality" to "virtual reality
       environment", plus incorporate comments from Andy.
       Issue a document containing proposed changes on dc-general
       for 14 days at the same time as proposed changes to DCMI
       terms.



-- 
Dr. Thomas Baker                      baker@sub.uni-goettingen.de
SUB - Goettingen State                            +49-551-39-3883
and University Library                           +49-30-8109-9027
Papendiek 14, 37073 Göttingen


</PRE>
