<PRE>
Title:               Usage Board Meeting Agenda
Date of meeting:     27-28 September 2003
Venue:               Seattle
Date Modified:       2003-09-17
Maintainer:          Thomas Baker, Usage Board chair <thomas.baker@bi.fhg.de>
Description:         Revisions are posted to the Usage Board mailing list.
                     On completion of a meeting, the archived agenda can be
                     accessed through the Usage Board Meetings page.

A complete packet of texts cited below is available as: 
http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/Meeting-packet.seattle.pdf (1.1 MB)

UB member participants:

   Andy Powell          Rebecca Guenther        Traugott Koch
   Diane Hillmann       Roland Schwaenzl        Andrew Wilson
   Stuart Sutton

   Apologies: Haruki Nagata

Guests:

   Stu Weibel (Sunday only)
   Heike Neuroth (Sunday only)
   Jani Stenvall (Sunday only?)


TOPIC 01. Unfinished business from Ithaca (Tom) - Saturday

   Assuming I can participate by phone, we should talk through
   the Decisions from the Ithaca meeting and assess what items
   remain to be done (lots unfortunately, many of which are
   on my plate).

   Reading:
   -- Ithaca agenda
      http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/Agenda-ithaca.html
   -- Ithaca decisions
      http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/Decisions-ithaca.html

TOPIC 02. Abstract Model (Andy) - Saturday

   Andy will summarize the recent discussion on DC-Architecture
   on the Abstract Model.  We should consider folding this
   article together with the DCMI Grammatical Principles,
   with which it overlaps.  Tom has suggested incorporating
   some aspects of the D-Lib Magazine article "Grammar of
   Dublin Core" (metadata as "statements" of a particular
   structure; the notion of a "core vocabulary" or "pidgin"),
   so I will include this in the packet as well.

   Required reading:
   -- Andy's Abstract Model
      http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/abstract-model/
   -- DCMI Grammatical Principles
      http://stage.dublincore.org/usage/documents/principles/
   -- D-Lib article "Grammar of Dublin Core"
      http://www.dlib.org/dlib/october00/baker/10baker.html

TOPIC 03. DCMICite and other DCSV proposals (Andy) - Sunday

    In light of the discussion on the Abstract Model, we
    need to decide whether to approve the DCMICite proposal.
    Whichever way we decide, we will need to justify our
    decision and consider what it implies for other such
    proposals in the pipeline (e.g., DCMI Agent Detail);
    for existing approved DCSVs (Point, Box, Period); and
    for the related syntax documents.

    Required reading:
    -- DCMICite: a Bibliographic Citation Dublin Core Structured 
       Value (DCSV) Encoding Scheme
       http://epub.mimas.ac.uk/DC/citdcsv.html
    -- Background reading on DCMICite (required)
       http://epub.mimas.ac.uk/DC/citdcsvbackgd.html

   Background reading:
   -- DCMI Agent Detail, structured values for CCP elements (Rebecca Guenther)
      http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/wa.exe?A2=ind0204&L=dc-agents&F=&S=&P=169
   -- http://dublincore.org/documents/2000/07/28/dcmi-dcsv/
   -- http://dublincore.org/documents/1999/04/30/labelled-values-syntax/
   -- http://dublincore.org/documents/2000/07/28/dcmi-point/
   -- http://dublincore.org/documents/2000/07/28/dcmi-period/
   -- http://dublincore.org/documents/2000/07/28/dcmi-box/

TOPIC 04. CEN "Guidelines for Dublin Core Application Profiles" (Tom) - Saturday

    Assuming he is participating by phone, Tom will present
    the "Guidelines for Dublin Core Application Profiles"
    recently approved CEN and discuss possible sharing
    between CEN and DCMI of maintenance responsibilities
    for this document.  This document, drafted by Tom,
    Makx, Rachel Heery, and Thomas Fischer is based on an
    analysis of over twenty existing application profiles
    of Dublin Core. The guidelines aim at providing a
    sensible and coherent format that will meet the needs
    of most Application Profile creators; that is as simple
    as possible yet as detailed as is sometimes necessary;
    and that will lend itself in the future to transformation
    into machine-processable forms.

    Tom would like the Usage Board to "approve" these
    guidelines as something we can link from the UB Documents
    page and to consider sharing maintenance responsibility
    for the document with the CEN MMI-DC Workshop.  If we do
    this, we should clarify the dependency of this document
    on the Abstract Model and Principles.

    Required reading:
    -- CEN "Guidelines for Dublin Core Application Profiles"
       http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/mmidc076.pdf
    -- DCMI Usage Board Review of Application Profiles
       http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/profiles/

TOPIC 05. "Using Dublin Core" (Diane) - Saturday

    Diane will bring us up-to-date.

    Required reading:
    -- http://dublincore.org/documents/2003/08/26/usageguide/
    -- http://dublincore.org/documents/2003/08/26/usageguide/glossary.shtml

TOPIC 06. Registration of Encoding Schemes (Traugott and Stu, as guest) 
          - Sunday

   In Seattle, Traugott should briefly review the open issues,
   from his perspective, in light of the discussion in
   Ithaca, and Stu will present a Directorate's perspective
   on the practicalities of offering a DCMI encoding scheme
   registration service.  Stu will also describe a related IETF
   activity of possible relevance to the idea of registering
   new terms.

   Required reading:
   -- Guidelines for Vocabulary and Encoding Scheme Qualifiers,
      http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/vocabulary-guidelines/

TOPIC 07. Libraries profile (Rebecca) - Sunday

   A brief report should identify any further actions that
   may need to be undertaken by Usage Board in support
   of the Library Application Profile.  In particular, the
   ISO8601 and AAT decisions from Ithaca need to be finalized.
   Rebecca can perhaps bring enough copies of the latest text
   of ISO8601 and AAT to pass around.

   In addition, we should perhaps consider, in light of the
   CEN Guidelines, how we might go about formally reviewing
   the Libraries profile -- possibly even at the next meeting.
   I have not included a copy of the Libraries profile in the 
   packet because of its length; the text was included in the
   supplementary packet for Ithaca.

TOPIC 08. MARC Relator Terms as Refinements for Contributor (Rebecca) 
          - Sunday

   In Florence, we agreed to work with the Library of Congress
   to have MARC relator terms declared as refinements of
   Contributor.  LC is currently implementing this decision
   and Rebecca can report in Seattle.  We should determine
   whether the Usage Board needs to follow through, and how,
   and identify any lessons learned.  After Seattle, we will
   need to prepare a document explaining how MARC Relator
   terms can be used as refinements for Contributor.

   The readings listed below may be a bit out of date with
   respect to Rebecca's latest work.

   Required reading:
   -- Assignment of URIs to metadata terms of MARC 21 - Action plan
      http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2003/06/MARC-URIs.pdf
   -- Excerpts from the RDF schema declaring the MARC Relator terms
      http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2003/06/Relator-excerpts-rdfxml.html

TOPIC 09. AskDCMI (Stuart and Diane) - Saturday

   Stuart and Diane will report on AskDCMI, which has been
   in operation for the past few weeks.  We will discuss the 
   role of Usage Board members in handling questions.

   Required viewing:
   -- http://askdcmi.askvrd.org/

   Required reading:
   -- http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2003/06/AskDCMI.html
   -- http://askdcmi.askvrd.org/services/askdcmi/expert_tips.asp

TOPIC 10. Proposal from DCMI Type Working Group (Diane)

   In Ithaca, we approved two related proposals to add
   terms to the DCMI Type Vocabulary -- "Moving Image" and
   "Still Image".  Finalizing these decisions depends on 
   adding to the Abstract Model and/or Principles a notion 
   of "sub-class".

   Diane should please bring the latest text for discussion.

TOPIC 11. Creative Commons proposal (Andrew and Stu, as guest)
          -- Sunday

   Stu has been working with Eric Miller and with Andy on
   a proposal for handling references to Creative Commons
   licenses with dc:rights.  Prior to the meeting he will
   circulate a text.  The UB will not be in a position to
   vote on this, as it will not have been out for comment
   for the required four weeks, but we should be able to
   provide some useful feedback, especially in light of the 
   Abstract Model discussion.

   Andrew, who will shepherd this proposal at the next meeting,
   will report on Creative Commons's own attempts to encode
   basic rights information, as well as efforts underway in
   the METS context.

   Stu to circulate a document before the meeting.

TOPIC 12. Usage Board recruitment (Stu)

   Stu will say a few words.

</PRE>
