<PRE>
Topic:             Usage Board meeting agenda, 9-10 September 2005
Identifier:        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/</a>
Archived as:       <a href="http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/meeting-packet.pdf">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/meeting-packet.pdf</a>
Modified:          2005-09-04 16:10, Sunday

Attendance               Guests
   Tom Baker                Joe Tennis
   Andy Powell              Alistair Miles
   Andrew Wilson            Pete Johnston
   Akira Miyazawa           Dan Brickley
   Diane Hillmann
   Stuart Sutton

Friday morning
Pg  Application profile review
 2  01. Review of Collection Description application profile              [Andrew]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/profile-collection/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/profile-collection/</a>
    02. Review of Application Profiles                                       [Tom]
        See separate meeting packet:
        gabriel.sub.uni-goettingen.de/~tbaker/profile-review/

Friday afternoon
Pg  Changes and guidelines for existing DCMI terms
 3  03. Editorial changes to the DCMI Type Vocabulary                     [Stuart]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/type-vocabulary/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/type-vocabulary/</a>
 4  04. Changes to DCMI properties                                          [Andy]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/property-definitions/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/property-definitions/</a>
 5  05. DC property domains and ranges                                      [Andy]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/property-domains/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/property-domains/</a>
 6  06. Issues related to dc:date                                            [Tom]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/date-issues/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/date-issues/</a>

Saturday
Pg  Policy and process
 7  07. Revision of DCSV documents                               [Andy and Andrew]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/dcsv/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/dcsv/</a>
 8  08. MARC Relators - follow-up                                            [Tom]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/marc-relators/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/marc-relators/</a>
10  09. Ongoing review of process document                      [Diane and Stuart]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/process/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/process/</a>
11  10. Guidelines for some new elements                                   [Diane]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/new-term-guidelines/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/new-term-guidelines/</a>
13  11. Accessibility decision - follow-up                                   [Tom]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/accessibility/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/accessibility/</a>
14  12. The back burner                                                      [Tom]
        <a href="/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/backburner/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2005/09/madrid/backburner/</a>
